American	Sign	Language	For	Dummies
®
Published	by:	
John	Wiley	&	Sons,	Inc.,
	
111	River	Street,	Hoboken,	NJ
07030-5774,	
www.wiley.com
Copyright	©	2017	by	John	Wiley	&	Sons,	Inc.,	Hoboken,	New	JerseyPublished	simultaneously	in	Canada
No	part	of	this	publication	may	be	reproduced,	stored	in	a	retrieval	system	or
transmitted	in	any	form	or	by	any	means,	electronic,	mechanical,
photocopying,	recording,	scanning	or	otherwise,	except	as	permitted	under
Sections	107	or	108	of	the	1976	United	States	Copyright	Act,	without	the
prior	written	permission	of	the	Publisher.	Requests	to	the	Publisher	for
permission	should	be	addressed	to	the	Permissions	Department,	John	Wiley
&	Sons,	Inc.,	111	River	Street,	Hoboken,	NJ	07030,	(201)	748-6011,	fax
(201)	748-6008,	or	online	at	
http://www.wiley.com/go/permissions
	
.
Trademarks:	Wiley,	For	Dummies,	the	Dummies	Man	logo,	Dummies.com,
Making	Everything	Easier,	and	related	trade	dress	are	trademarks	or
registered	trademarks	of	John	Wiley	&	Sons,	Inc.,	and	may	not	be	used
without	written	permission.	All	other	trademarks	are	the	property	of	their
respective	owners.	John	Wiley	&	Sons,	Inc.,	is	not	associated	with	any
product	or	vendor	mentioned	in	this	book.
LIMIT	OF	LIABILITY/DISCLAIMER	OF	WARRANTY:	WHILE	THE
PUBLISHER	AND	AUTHOR	HAVE	USED	THEIR	BEST	EFFORTS	IN
PREPARING	THIS	BOOK,	THEY	MAKE	NO	REPRESENTATIONS	OR
WARRANTIES	WITH	RESPECT	TO	THE	ACCURACY	OR
COMPLETENESS	OF	THE	CONTENTS	OF	THIS	BOOK	AND
SPECIFICALLY	DISCLAIM	ANY	IMPLIED	WARRANTIES	OF
MERCHANTABILITY	OR	FITNESS	FOR	A	PARTICULAR	PURPOSE.
NO	WARRANTY	MAY	BE	CREATED	OR	EXTENDED	BY	SALES
REPRESENTATIVES	OR	WRITTEN	SALES	MATERIALS.	THE
ADVICE	AND	STRATEGIES	CONTAINED	HEREIN	MAY	NOT	BE
SUITABLE	FOR	YOUR	SITUATION.	YOU	SHOULD	CONSULT	WITH
A	PROFESSIONAL	WHERE	APPROPRIATE.	NEITHER	THE
PUBLISHER	NOR	THE	AUTHOR	SHALL	BE	LIABLE	FOR	DAMAGES
ARISING	HEREFROM.
For	general	information	on	our	other	products	and	services,	please	contact
our	Customer	Care	Department	within	the	U.S.	at	877-762-2974,	outside	the
U.S.	at	317-572-3993,	or	fax	317-572-4002.	For	technical	support,	please
visit	
https://hub.wiley.com/community/support/dummies
	
.
Wiley	publishes	in	a	variety	of	print	and	electronic	formats	and	by	print-on-
demand.	Some	material	included	with	standard	print	versions	of	this	bookmay	not	be	included	in	e-books	or	in	print-on-demand.	If	this	book	refers	to
media	such	as	a	CD	or	DVD	that	is	not	included	in	the	version	you
purchased,	you	may	download	this	material	at
http://booksupport.wiley.com
	
.	For	more	information	about	Wiley
products,	visit	
www.wiley.com
	
.
Library	of	Congress	Control	Number:	2016953540
ISBN	978-1-119-28607-3	(pbk);	ISBN	978-1-119-28609-7	(ebk);	ISBN	978-
1-119-28610-3	(ebk)American	Sign	Language	For
Dummies®
To	view	this	book's	Cheat	Sheet,	simply	go	to
www.dummies.com
	
and	search	for	“American	Sign
Language	For	Dummies	Cheat	Sheet”	in	the	Search
box.
Table	of	Contents
Cover
Introduction
About	This	Book
Foolish	Assumptions
Icons	Used	in	This	Book
Beyond	the	Book
Where	to	Go	from	Here
Part	1:	American	Sign	Language	and	You
Chapter	1:	You	Already	Know	a	Little	Sign
Discovering	Signs	That	Look	like	What	They	Mean
Building	on	the	Basics	of	Sign:	Gestures	and	Expression
Chapter	2:	Signing	Grammar	Basics
Explaining	the	Parts	of	Speech
Talking	Tenses
Structuring	Sentences
Exclaiming	in	Simple	Sentences
Signing	Conditional	Sentences
Personification:	The	Secret	of	Agents
Clarifying	with	Classifiers
Chapter	3:	Starting	to	Sign	Basic	Expressions
Initiating	a	Conversation
Getting	AcquaintedActing	the	Part:	Constructed	Dialogue	and	Constructed
Action
Chapter	4:	Getting	Your	Numbers	and	Times
Straight
Counting	on	Numbers
Talking	about	Time
Chapter	5:	Signing	at	Home
Handling	Signs	about	Your	Home
Hanging	Out	for	the	Holidays
Teaching	the	Tots
Keeping	Track	of	Your	Subjects	in	Space
Part	2:	Refining	Your	ASL
Chapter	6:	Asking	Questions	and	Making	Small	Talk
Signing	Key	Questions:	Six	Ws,	One	H
Discussing	Family,	Friends,	and	More
Using	Possessives	and	Pronouns	When	Chatting
Chapter	7:	Asking	for	Directions
Finding	Your	Way
Looking	to	Natural	Landmarks
Searching	the	Streets
Transporting	Yourself
Directing	Your	Sentences	with	Conjunctions
Chapter	8:	Dining	and	Going	to	the	Market
Eating	Three	Square	Meals	a	Day
Dining	Out
Attention,	Shoppers!
Chapter	9:	Shopping	Made	Easy
Clothes	for	All	Seasons
All	about	Money
Shopping	Superlatives	and	Comparisons
Chapter	10:	The	Signer	About	Town
Making	Plans
Selecting	Your	Social	Station
Chapter	11:	Takin’	Care	of	Business
Occupying	Yourself	with	Occupations
Sorting	Office	SuppliesGetting	to	Work
Chapter	12:	Recreation	and	the	Great	Outdoors
Exercising	Your	Right	to	Recreate
Playing	Indoor	Games
Having	Fun	with	Hobbies
Seeing	the	Night	Sky
Getting	the	Weather	Report
Asking	Rhetorical	Questions	in	ASL
Chapter	13:	Here’s	to	Your	Health
Going	to	the	Doctor
Describing	Ailments	and	Treatments
Pointing	to	Body	Parts
Handling	Emergencies
Part	3:	Looking	at	Life	through	Deaf	Eyes
Chapter	14:	The	Deaf	Community	and	Deaf	Etiquette
Digging	into	Sign’s	Past
Examining	When	and	How	ASL	began
Facing	the	Challenges	of	the	Deaf	Community
The	Deaf	as	an	Ethnic	Group
Being	Sensitive	to	Being	Deaf
Participating	in	the	Deaf	Community
Interpreting	for	the	Deaf	Community
Chapter	15:	Soliciting	Social	Justice
Oralists	and	Manualists	Meet	in	Milan
The	Deaf	Have	It
Rejecting	Language	Oppression
Movers	and	Shakers
Chapter	16:	Using	Technology	to	Communicate
Using	Videophones:	Can	You	See	Me	Now?
Using	Other	Communication	Methods
Calling	through	Captioning
Part	4:	The	Part	of	Tens
Chapter	17:	Ten	Tips	to	Help	You	Sign	like	a	Pro
Watch	Yourself	and	Others	Sign
Discover	Multiple	Signs	for	Communicating	One	Thing
Practice	Your	Signing	—	with	OthersAlways	Fingerspell	a	Name	First
Adjust	Your	Eyes;	Everyone’s	Signing	Is	Different
Use	Facial	Expressions	like	Vocal	Inflections
Journal	Your	Progress
Get	Some	Signing	Space
Don’t	Jump	the	Gun
Watch	the	Face,	Not	the	Hands
Chapter	18:	Ten	Ways	to	Pick	Up	Sign	Quickly
Volunteer	at	a	Residential	School	for	the	Deaf
Volunteer	at	Local	Deaf	Clubs
Attend	Deaf	Social	Functions
Make	Deaf	Friends
Assist	Deaf	Ministries
Attend	Conferences	for	Interpreters
Work	at	Camps	for	the	Deaf
Attend	Silent	Weekends
Go	to	Deaf	Workshops	and	Deaf	Conferences
Watch	Sign	Language	Videos
Chapter	19:	Ten	Popular	Deaf	Expressions
Swallowed	the	Fish
Train	Gone
Pea	Brain
Rats!/Darn!
I	Hope
Your	Guess	Is	as	Good	as	Mine
Cool!
Oh	No!
That’s	Superb!
That’s	Pretty	Straight-Laced
Wow!
About	the	Authors
Advertisement	Page
Connect	with	Dummies
End	User	License	Agreement
GuideCover
Table	of	Contents
Begin	ReadingIntroduction
American	Sign	Language	is	one	of	those	fascinating	forms	of
communication.	As	you	walk	through	a	grocery	store,	a	restaurant,	or	a	park,
you	might	see	some	people	moving	their	hands	in	the	air	as	they	look	at	each
other.	We	know	that	they	are	communicating	because	they	are	responding	to
each	other	with	gestures	and	facial	expressions.	There	is	meaning	to	the
movement.	How	often	have	you	thought	that	you	would	love	to	know	how	to
do	that?	Well	here	is	your	chance.
About	This	Book
American	Sign	Language	For	Dummies
	
is	designed	to	give	you	a	general
understanding	of	how	to	communicate	in	American	Sign	Language,	as	well
as	a	general	understanding	of	Deaf	culture	and	Deaf	history.	As	you’ll	soon
see,	the	language	and	the	culture	go	hand	in	hand	and	can’t	be	separated,	and
an	understanding	of	both	makes	you	a	better	signer.	As	you	go	through	this
book,	you	will	see	that	ASL	has	rules	about	how	to	shape	the	hands,	how	the
hands	move,	and	how	to	put	signs	in	order.
To	clarify,	this	book	focuses	solely	on	what’s	known	as	
American	Sign
Language
	
(ASL)	because	it’s	pretty	much	the	only	form	of	communication
for	the	Deaf	community	in	the	United	States.
This	book	is	categorized	according	to	subject.	You	can	use	each	chapter	as	a
building	block	for	the	next	chapter	or	you	can	skip	around	wherever	you
please.	Just	find	a	subject	that	interests	you	and	dig	in,	remembering	that	the
most	important	thing	is	to	have	fun	while	you’re	figuring	out	this	stuff.	It
never	hurts	to	have	a	study	buddy.	Having	a	friend	to	watch	you	sign,	bounce
off	your	questions,	and	applaud	your	progress	may	be	just	the	thing.	And	if
you	like	to	fly	solo,	that’s	ok	too.	Whichever	way	you	go,	the	construct	of	the
book	is	simple	enough	to	follow.
After	you	understand	a	concept,	we	strongly	recommend	that	you	practice
with	those	who	are	already	proficient.	Conversing	with	Deaf	people	is	highly
recommended	as	they	are	the	experts.	Doing	so	helps	reinforce	the
knowledge	you	obtain	from	this	book	and	allows	others	to	help	you	hone
your	skills.	If	others	understand	you,	you’re	probably	on	the	right	track.	Andif	you	don’t	understand	something,	don’t	despair.	People	all	over	the	world
learn	how	to	sign.	You'll	get	there	with	practice.
Here	are	some	conventions	we	use	to	help	you	navigate	this	book:
We	capitalize	the	word	
Sign
	
when	we	use	it	as	another	name	for	American
Sign	Language.	We	don’t,	however,	capitalize	it	when	we	use	it	as	a	verb
(to	sign)
	
or	a	noun	(referring	to	a	person	—	a	
signer
	
—	or	to	a	specific
sign).
We	always	capitalize	
Deaf
	
because	it	means	culturally	Deaf	(whereas
lowercase	“deaf”	simply	means	that	someone	has	an	audiological	hearing
loss	and	communicates	in	spoken	English	rather	than	ASL).
Whenever	we	use	Sign	in	lists,	examples,	and	dialogues,	we	print	it	in	ALL
CAPS	to	show	that	it’s	the	closest	equivalent	to	its	English	counterpart.
When	we	introduce	a	new	sign,	we	
bold
	
it	in	the	text	so	that	you	know
you’re	about	to	learn	a	new	sign.
ASL	doesn’t	use	punctuation,	so	we	add	hyphens	to	show	slight	pauses	in
Sign	translations.
The	text	(Sign	and	its	English	translation)	always	comes	before	the
illustration.
To	save	space,	manual	numbers	and	words	that	are	fingerspelled	don’t	have
illustrations.	See	
Chapter	1
	
if	you	need	help	remembering	how	to	sign	a
particular	letter	or	number.
A	
Q
	
in	a	line	of	ASL	indicates	that	you	need	to	sign	the	manual	question
mark	(flip	to	
Chapter	6
	
for	more	on	the	manual	question	mark).
Don’t	think	of	the	translations	of	English	sentences	into	ASL	as	word-for-
word	translations.	In	fact,	many	signs	have	no	English	equivalents.
Throughout	this	book,	you	find	English	equivalents	that	are	close	in	meaning
to	Sign	but	not	exactly	the	same.	Remember	that	ASL	is	a	completely
different	language	from	English.	Fortunately,	many	gestures	that	hearing
people	use	are	also	used	by	Deaf	people	in	ASL,	so	you	already	have	a	head
start	that	you	can	build	on.
Foolish	Assumptions
We	hate	to	assume	anything	about	anyone,	but	when	writing	this	book,	we
had	to	make	a	few	foolish	assumptions	about	you.	Here	they	are	(we	hope	we
were	right):were	right):
You	have	little	or	no	experience	in	this	type	of	communication,	but	you’ll
try	anything	once.	Fair	is	fair.
You	don’t	expect	to	become	fluent	in	Sign	after	going	through	this	book.
You	just	want	some	basic	vocabulary,	and	you	want	to	see	what	particular
signs	look	like	by	themselves	and	in	simple	sentences.	There	is	nothing	like
intellectual	curiosity.
You	aren’t	interested	in	memorizing	grammar	rules;	you	just	want	to
communicate.	However,	for	you	grammar	gurus,	
Chapter	2
	
is	written	for
you.	There	are	rules	and	concepts	sprinkled	throughout	the	book.
You	want	to	know	a	few	signs	to	be	able	to	communicate	with	Deaf	friends,
family	members,	and	acquaintances.	There	is	strength	in	thinking	of	others.
Because	ASL	satisfies	a	foreign	language	requirement	at	your	college	or
university.	Good	for	you!
You	met	an	interesting	Deaf	girl	or	engaging	Deaf	guy,	and	knowing	some
Sign	will	really	help	out.	At	least	you’re	honest.
Icons	Used	in	This	Book
To	help	you	find	certain	types	of	information	more	easily,	we	include	several
icons	in	this	book.	You	find	them	on	the	left-hand	side	of	the	page,	sprinkled
throughout:
	
This	icon	highlights	tips	and	tricks	that	can	make	signing	easier.
	
This	icon	points	out	interesting	and	important	information	that	you
don’t	want	to	forget.
	
To	avoid	making	a	blunder	or	offending	a	Deaf	friend,	pay	attention
to	what	these	paragraphs	have	to	say.	
This	icon	draws	your	attention	to	information	about	the	culture	of	the
Deaf	community.
	
This	icon	indicates	“Signin’	the	Sign”	dialogues	and	other	elements
that	are	featured	in	video	clips	online.	You	can	see	Sign	in	action	and
practice	with	the	signers.
Beyond	the	Book
This	book	comes	with	an	online	Cheat	Sheet	that	contains	helpful	reference
information.	To	get	the	Cheat	Sheet,	go	to	
www.dummies.com
	
and	type
“American	Sign	Language	For	Dummies	Cheat	Sheet”	in	the	Search	box.
Your	purchase	of	this	book	also	gives	you	access	to	lots	of	online	videos.
Many	of	the	dialogues	in	this	book	are	shown	online	(as	indicated	by	the	Play
This	icon),	and	you'll	also	find	a	handy	mini	dictionary	of	common	terms.
You	can	access	all	of	the	videos	at	
www.dummies.com/go/aslvideos
	
.
Where	to	Go	from	Here
The	beauty	of	this	book	is	that	you	can	begin	anywhere	you	want.	You	may
find	it	helpful	to	start	with	the	first	few	chapters	to	get	down	the	basics,	but	if
that’s	not	your	thing,	feel	free	to	jump	in	wherever	you	want.	Use	the	table	of
contents	and	the	index	to	point	you	in	the	right	direction	(no	pun	intended).
Find	a	subject	that	interests	you,	start	signing,	and	have	fun!	Just	remember,
you’re	going	to	make	mistakes,	but	don’t	let	that	discourage	you.	Instead,	use
those	mistakes	as	opportunities	to	solidify	and	strengthen	what	you	now
know	to	be	right.	Nothing	worthwhile	comes	easily.Part	1
American	Sign	Language	and	YouIN	THIS	PART	…
Trying	out	the	signs	you	already	know.
Structuring	what	you	know	and	adding	to	your	foundation.
Learning	some	basic	expressions,	numbers,	and	new	vocabulary.
Building	on	your	base	of	knowledge	with	things	you	know	from	home.Chapter	1
You	Already	Know	a	Little	Sign
IN	THIS	CHAPTER
Knowing	some	of	ASL’s	iconic	signs
Managing	the	manual	alphabet
Creating	compounds
Handling	handshapes
Communicating	using	gestures	and	facial	expressions
	
Signing	isn’t	difficult,	although	moving	your	hands,	body,	and	face	to	convey
meaning	instead	of	just	using	your	voice	may	seem	odd	at	first.	But	with
time,	practice,	and	interaction,	you’ll	see	that	hand	movements	can	be
meaningful.	Your	goal	and	reward	is	being	able	to	meet	and	communicate
with	a	whole	new	group	of	people	—	people	who	share	your	opinions,
hobbies,	and	more.	That’s	definitely	worth	the	initial	awkwardness!
This	chapter	illustrates	the	manual	alphabet	in	American	Sign	Language	and
talks	about	hand	and	body	movements.	Here,	we	show	you	the	basics	of
making	handshapes	and	using	facial	expressions	and	body	language	to	get
your	ideas	across.	And	we	start	off	by	reassuring	you	that	you	already	know
some	signs.	Trust	us	—	you	do.
For	example,	Sign	is	interwoven	in	your	gestures	when	you	use	your	index
finger	to	motion	to	someone	to	“come	here,”	when	you	shake	your	head
“yes”	and	“no,”	and	when	you	give	someone	the	“evil	eye.”	When	you	put
these	in	signing	context,	you	convey	volumes	of	information.
Discovering	Signs	That	Look	like	What
They	Mean
Iconic
	
or	
natural
	
signs	look	like	what	they	mean	—	the	up	and	down	motion
of	brushing	your	teeth	that	means	
toothbrush,
	
for	instance,	or	the	right	andleft	punches	that	mean	
boxing.
	
Iconic	signs	always	show	action
.
	
Here	are
some	examples:
BOXING:
	
Looks	like	you’re	“putting	up	your	dukes.”
DRIVE:
	
Pretend	that	you’re	steering	a	car.
EAT:
	
Act	like	you’re	putting	food	in	your	mouth.
MILK:
	
Have	you	ever	seen	a	cow	being	milked?	That’s	how	you	sign	milk.
SWIMMING/POOL:
	
Think	of	when	you	walk	through	the	shallow	end	of	the
pool	and	extend	your	arms	out	in	front	of	you	to	clear	the	water.TOOTHBRUSH/BRUSH	TEETH:
	
If	you’ve	ever	brushed	your	teeth	with	your
finger,	you	made	the	sign	for	toothbrush	and	for	brushing	your	teeth.
Like	the	sign	for	boxing,	many	sports	signs	are	iconic.	Check	out	
Chapter	12
for	more	sports	signs.
BEING	A	WINNING	RECEIVER
If	you	have	trouble	reading	someone’s	signs,	check	the	context	and	then	ask	yourself,	“What	could	this
person	mean?”	Remember	that	it’s	okay	to	ask	someone	to	repeat	something,	just	like	you	do	when
you	don’t	understand	someone	speaking	to	you.	You	can	show	a	signer	you’re	“listening”	by	nodding
your	head.	If	at	any	time	someone	is	signing	something	to	you	and	you	begin	not	to	understand,	stop
the	person	and	let	her	know	what	you	did	understand	and	where	you	stopped	understanding.	This	is
perfectly	acceptable.	Don’t	wait	for	the	person	to	finish	a	long,	drawn-out	thought	and	then	say,	“I
don’t	understand.”
Remember	not	to	watch	the	signer’s	hands	primarily.	You	want	to	watch	the	signer’s	hands	through
your	peripheral	vision.	Keep	your	eyes	on	the	whole	picture,	from	the	signer’s	abdomen	on	up	to	her
head.	The	eyes,	face,	hands,	and	body	movements	tell	the	whole	story.
Building	on	the	Basics	of	Sign:
Gestures	and	Expression
You	already	know	that	“speaking”	ASL	is	mostly	a	matter	of	using	your
fingers,	hands,	and	arms.	What	you	may	not	understand	yet	is	that	facial
expressions	and	body	language	are	important	and	sometimes	crucial	for
conveying	and	understanding	signs	and	their	meaning.	If	you’re	focused	only
on	a	signer’s	hands,	you	can	easily	miss	the	slightest	rolling	of	the	eyes,	a
raised	eyebrow,	or	the	signer	“pointing”	at	something	with	the	eyes.	So
expect	to	see	hands	on	hips	in	frustration,	eyes	open	wide	in	shock,	and	hands
on	mouths	covering	a	hearty	laugh.	You	know	these	gestures	already	and	are
off	to	a	good	start.off	to	a	good	start.
The	following	sections	explain	how	you	get	nearly	your	whole	body	involved
in	ASL.
Spelling	with	your	fingers
Signers	use	the	manual	alphabet	(shown	later	in	this	section)	all	the	time,
especially	beginners.	Signers	
fingerspell
	
—	spell	using	the	manual	alphabet
—	certain	words	and,	at	first,	people’s	names.	So	as	a	beginner,	feel	free	to
fingerspell	any	word	you	don’t	know	the	sign	for.	If	you	want	to	fingerspell
two	or	more	words	in	a	row,	such	as	a	title	or	someone’s	first	and	last	name,
pause	for	just	a	second	between	each	word.
	
In	this	book,	any	word	that	you	fingerspell	is	shown	in	hyphenated
letters.	For	example,	
mall
	
is	written	as	M-A-L-L.	We	usually	don’t	take
the	space	to	show	the	hand	signs	for	each	letter;	we	leave	it	to	you	to
find	the	appropriate	letters	here	in	this	chapter.
	
Don’t	worry	about	being	slow	at	fingerspelling.	Remember,	clarity	is
the	goal,	not	speed.	Silently	mouth	the	letter	sounds	as	you	fingerspell
the	letters.	Doing	so	helps	you	control	your	speed	because	you
concentrate	more	on	the	letters.	Don’t	pronounce	each	letter
individually;	pronounce	the	sounds	as	you	fingerspell.	If	you’re
fingerspelling	P-H-I-L-L-I-P,	for	example,	mouthing	“P-H”	is	incorrect.
You	want	to	mouth	the	“F”	sound.
You	may	encounter	Deaf	people	who	fingerspell	everything,	even	words	that
have	a	sign.	This	is	called	the	
Rochester	Method,
	
and	some	Deaf	people	are
most	comfortable	communicating	this	way.	Even	the	best	interpreters	can
easily	get	lost	trying	to	understand	this	method.	The	best	way	to	follow	what
these	signers	are	expressing	is	to	watch	their	mouth	movement	and	read	their
lips.	You	may	not	catch	most	of	what’s	said,	but	if	you	do	some	lip-reading,
remember	the	topic,	and	ask	for	clarification,	you’ll	get	by.	
You	sign,	rather	than	fingerspell,	some	
initializations
	
—	concepts
such	as	
a.m.
	
and	
p.m.,
	
which	you	sign	as	morning	and	evening,
respectively.	But	you	can	fingerspell	a	word	like	
okay
	
as	O-K,	or	you
can	just	show	the	F	handshape.	Yes,	it’s	a	gesture,	but	it	gets	the	point
across.	Remember,	all	languages	use	gestures,	and	ASL	is	no	different.A.M.
P.M.
You	may	run	across	compound	names	that	are	abbreviated	as	two	letters:	Los
Angeles	(LA),	San	Francisco	(SF),	Burger	King	(BK),	and	Blue	Ridge	(BR).
Remember	to	fingerspell	the	complete	word	before	you	abbreviate	it,	because
L-A	could	mean	Louisiana	and	B-R	could	mean	Baton	Rouge.	The	goal	is	to
be	clear;	shortcuts	and	slang	will	come,	so	don’t	get	ahead	of	yourself
.
Shaping	up	those	hands
Remembering	a	few	simple	points	can	help	you	make	handshapes	like	a
lifelong	signer.	
Handshapes
	
are	hand	formations	that	you	use	to	sign	each
letter	of	the	alphabet;	this	is	also	called	the	
manual	alphabet.
	
Your	manual
dexterity	is	like	a	voice	that	has	the	ability	to	sing,	and	it	requires	practice.
Start	with	two-letter	words	and	graduate	to	larger	ones.	As	you	start	getting
the	feel	for	fingerspelling,	you’ll	be	using	hand	muscles	that	you	didn’t	know
you	had,	so	you	may	notice	a	little	soreness.
	
Handshapes	are	the	individual	letters	of	the	manual	alphabet,	and
fingerspelling	is	an	action	using	the	manual	alphabet	to	create	words.
	
In	your	excitement	to	sign,	you	face	the	possibility	of	overusing	your
hands.	Like	that	singing	voice,	your	hands	need	a	little	break	as	they	get
ready	for	the	next	step.	To	find	out	how	to	keep	your	hands	limber,
search	for	“hand	exercises”	on	the	Internet	or	talk	to	sign	languageinterpreters.
In	the	rest	of	this	section,	we	explain	the	basic	conventions	of	handshapes.
	
For	signing	purposes,	the	hand	you	write	with	is	called	your
dominant	hand
	
(some	folks	call	it	the	
active	hand
	
).	The	other	hand	is
your	
base	hand
	
or	
passive	hand.
	
In	this	book,	all	the	illustrations
represent	a	right-handed	signer	—	the	right	hand	illustrates	the	dominant
hand,	and	the	left	hand	illustrates	the	passive	hand.	So,	in	a	nutshell,	if
you	see	a	sign	with	the	right	hand	dominant	and	you’re	left-handed,	use
your	left	hand.
While	your	active	hand	does	the	work,	your	passive	hand	does	one	of	the
following:
It	mirrors	the	active	hand.
It	displays	one	of	seven	basic	handshapes,	called	
natural	handshapes.
The	seven	natural	handshapes	are	the	letters	
A,	B,	C,	S,
	
and	
O
	
and	the
numbers	
1
	
and	
5.
	
If	you	don’t	use	your	passive	hand	for	these	handshapes,	you’ll	be
breaking	a	rule	in	ASL.	The	Deaf	person	who	is	watching	you	sign	may
not	know	this	particular	rule,	but	they’ll	be	thrown	off.	Therefore,	follow
this	basic	rule	and	stay	ahead	of	the	game.
You	can	use	natural	handshapes	in	a	variety	of	ways.	You	may	form	the	same
handshape	in	one	direction	for	a	particular	sign	but	in	a	different	direction	for
another	sign.	For	a	sign	such	as	
start,
	
you	form	the	natural	handshape	(in	thiscase,	the	number	5)	in	one	direction.	But	for	a	sign	such	as	
cook,
	
you	form
that	same	natural	handshape	in	a	different	direction.	Check	out	the	following
examples	of	active/passive	handshapes	that	you	use	while	signing:
START:
	
Place	your	active	index	finger	between	your	index	and	middle	fingers
of	your	passive	hand,	and	then	turn	the	active	index	finger	outward	—	it	looks
like	you’re	turning	the	ignition	key	in	a	car.
BUY:
	
Hold	out	your	passive	hand,	palm	up	in	the	5	handshape.	Use	your	active
hand	as	you	would	to	hand	money	to	a	salesclerk.
COOK:
	
Hold	your	passive	hand	out,	palm	up.	Lay	your	active	hand	across	the
top	of	it,	palm	down.	Now	flip	your	active	hand	over,	then	flip	it	back	over,	palm
down.
When	your	passive	hand	mirrors	the	shape	of	your	dominant	hand,	you	move
both	hands	either	together	or	alternately.	If	moving	them	alternately,	you
move	both	hands	in	alternate	directions	at	the	same	time.	Here	are	some
examples	of	alternating	handshapes:
BOOK:
	
Make	this	sign	as	if	you’re	actually	opening	a	book.GIFT:
	
Put	both	hands	in	front	of	you	in	the	“X”	handshape,	but	extend	one	a
little	farther	away	than	the	other	from	your	body.	At	the	same	time,	jerk	your
hands	up	a	little	bit,	twice.
MAYBE:
	
With	both	hands	facing	upward,	alternate	them	in	an	up	down	motion.
STORE:
	
Keep	your	hands	in	the	same	shape	and	move	them	back	and	forth
simultaneously.
Benefiting	with	body	language
Communicating	a	concept	in	Sign	is	often	made	clear	by	using	body
language.	The	meaning	of	
I	don’t	know
	
comes	through	clearly	when	you
raise	your	shoulders,	tilt	your	head,	and	turn	your	palm	up.	Signing	
I’m	sick
is	more	easily	understood	when	you	accompany	the	sign	with	half-shut	eyes,
an	open	mouth,	and	a	partially	extended	tongue.	Another	example	is	the	word
no.
	
The	speed	at	which	you	shake	your	head	from	side	to	side,	with	eyes	open
or	shut,	can	say	a	lot	about	the	degree	of	
no.
	
Quick,	short	body	movements
show	an	emphatic	message;	an	exaggeratedly	slow	motion	with	an
exaggerated	facial	expression	conveys	a	similar	message.	In	a	word,	the
speed	of	the	sign	displays	various	tones.	Check	out	the	illustrations	of	these
signs	to	see	what	we	mean:DON’T	KNOW:
	
This	Sign	should	convey	an	actual	look	of	not	knowing.	It
makes	the	Sign	more	authentic.
SICK:
	
Both	hands	move	in	a	small	circular	motion.	One	hand	touches	the	head
while	the	other	touches	the	stomach.	Looking	nauseous	as	you	do	the	sign.	The
facial	expression	is	the	ticket	to	signing	this	term	correctly.
NO:
	
When	you	sign	the	word,	close	your	eyes	if	you	want	to	make	it	more
emphatic.	This	sign	can	be	made	as	gentle	as	telling	your	favorite	niece,	
no,
	
or	as
harshly	as	possible	by	telling	a	pest,	
NO!
	
Attitude	is	everything	in	ASL.
Gazing	at	the	face	of	expression
In	Sign,	you	use	your	face	to	show	emotion	and	add	expression.	Facial
expressions	tell	you	how	the	signer	feels	about	the	information	he’s	signing.
Your	facial	expression	is	just	as	important	as	your	hand	movements.	Without
the	correct	facial	expression,	the	person	watching	you	sign	will	either	get	the
wrong	message	or	need	clarification	to	make	sure	that	he	understands	your
message	correctly.
Don’t	be	alarmed	if	you	aren’t	understood,	even	if	a	Deaf	person	asks	for
clarification	a	couple	of	times	for	the	same	sentence.	This	means	the	person
genuinely	wants	to	understand	what	you	mean,	and	it	also	affords	you	the
opportunity	to	learn	to	express	your	thoughts	by	Deaf	standards.	This	is	an
invaluable	way	of	learning;	don’t	shy	away	from	this	experience.Sign	expressions	as	if	you	actually	“feel”	that	way.	For	example,	you	sign	the
word	
sad
	
while	you	slump	your	shoulders	down	and	make	a	sad	facial
expression.	You	sign	
happy
	
just	the	opposite	—	keep	your	shoulders	up	and
wear	a	smile.	(Check	out	
Chapter	3
	
for	illustrations	of	these	signs.)
	
Be	sure	that	you	maintain	eye	contact	when	you’re	signing,	and,
again,	watch	your	conversational	partner’s	face,	not	his	hands.	Your
peripheral	vision	allows	you	to	still	see	the	hands,	so	don’t	worry	about
missing	any	signs.
Signin’	the	Sign
Belinda	and	Terry	are	getting	ready	for	the	holidays.	Belinda	wants	to	start	shopping	for	Christmas
presents.
Terry:
Do	you	want	a	ride	to	the	mall?
Sign:
M-A-L-L	—	RIDE	—	WANT	YOU	Q
Belinda:
Yes,	I	want	to	start	buying	Christmas	gifts	soon.
Sign:
YES	—	SOON	—	CHRISTMAS	GIFTS	—	START	BUYING	—	WANT	MEChapter	2
Signing	Grammar	Basics
IN	THIS	CHAPTER
Signing	various	parts	of	speech
	
Indicating	tenses	in	your	signing
Putting	together	some	simple	sentences
	
Expressing	exclamations
Getting	more	complicated	with	conditional	sentences
	
Classifying	with
classifiers
In	this	chapter,	we	talk	about	the	building	blocks	that	you	need	to
communicate	in	any	language	—	nouns,	verbs,	adjectives,	and	adverbs	—
and	we	tell	you	how	to	put	them	together	to	form	simple	sentences.	We	also
tell	you	how	to	get	your	body	involved	to	express	verb	tenses.
Explaining	the	Parts	of	Speech
Both	English	and	American	Sign	Language	have	subjects	and	verbs,	as	well
as	adjectives	and	adverbs	that	describe	the	subjects	and	verbs.	Also,	English
and	Sign	both	allow	you	to	converse	about	the	present,	past,	and	future,	so
whatever	English	can	do,	Sign	can	do	—	visually.	However,	unlike	English,
ASL	doesn’t	use	prepositions	as	a	separate	part	of	speech.	As	a	general	rule,
most	prepositions	in	Sign,	with	a	few	exceptions,	act	as	verbs.
	
The	English	language	articles	—	
a,	an,
	
and	
the
	
—	aren’t	used	in
Sign.	Likewise,	helping	verbs,	such	as	
am,	is,
	
and	
are,
	
aren’t	used	in
Sign,	either.	ASL	is	an	active	language,	which	means	that	helping	verbs
and	being	verbs	aren’t	necessary.
Distinguishing	between	noun/verb	pairs
Some	nouns	and	verbs	in	Sign	share	the	same	handshapes.	You	distinguish
the	part	of	speech	by	signing	the	motion	once	if	it’s	a	verb	and	twice	if	it’s	a
noun.	Like	any	language,	there	are	exceptions	to	the	rule.
Though	most	nouns	don’t	have	a	verb	that	looks	the	same,	all	but	a	few	nounsneed	the	double	motion.	Most	of	the	noun	illustrations	in	this	book	are
represented	by	double	arrows.	We	indicate	which	nouns	don’t	follow	the
double-motion	rule.
Table	2-1
	
shows	a	few	noun	and	verb	pairs.
TABLE	2-1
	
Nouns	and	Verbs	with	Shared	Handshapes
English	Noun
Sign
English	Verb
Sign
CHAIR
SIT
PLANE
FLY
CAR
DRIVE
The	following	examples	compare	the	noun/verb	differences.
English:
	
Please	sit	in	this	chair.
Sign:
	
THIS	CHAIR	(point)	—	PLEASE	—	SITEnglish:
	
I	like	to	fly	small	planes.
Sign:
	
SMALL	PLANES	—	FLY	—	LIKE	ME
Modifying	with	adjectives	and	adverbsModifying	with	adjectives	and	adverbs
In	English,	a	modifier	can	come	before	or	after	the	word	it	modifies,
depending	on	the	sentence.	However,	in	Sign,	you	typically	place	the
adjective	or	adverb	—	the	modifier	—	after	the	word	it	modifies.	But
sometimes	in	Sign,	you	may	find	yourself	expressing	the	modifier	at	the	same
time	you	sign	the	word	it	modifies,	just	by	using	your	face.
Your	facial	expressions	can	describe	things	and	actions	in	ASL.	For	instance,
if	something	is	small	or	big,	you	can	show	its	size	without	actually	signing
small
	
or	
big.
	
You	can	describe	a	small	piece	of	thread	by	pursing	your	lips,
blowing	out	a	little	air,	and	closing	your	eyes	halfway.	If	something	is	very
thick,	puff	out	your	cheeks.	You	can	convey	that	it’s	raining	hard	or	that	a	car
is	moving	fast	by	moving	your	eyebrows	or	shaping	your	mouth	a	certain
way.	(Turn	to	
Chapter	1
	
for	more	on	using	expressions	and	body	language.)
The	following	examples	show	adjectives	and	adverbs	placed	with	nouns	and
verbs.	We	also	provide	tips	on	how	to	use	facial	expressions	to	really	get	your
point	across	when	describing	things	in	Sign.
PRETTY	GIRL:
	
Raise	your	eyebrows,	form	your
mouth	into	an	“o”	shape	(like	saying	ooh),	sign
“pretty”	and	then	“girl.”
BAD	MOVIE:
	
Sign	the	word	“movie”	and	then	turn
your	mouth	down	in	a	frown	and	scrunch	your
eyebrows	together	while	signing	the	word	“bad.”GOOD	DOG:
	
Sign	the	word	“dog”	first,	then	slightly
smile	and	raise	your	eyebrows	as	you	sign	the	word
“good.”
TALK	LOUDLY	or	LOUDLY	TALK
RUN	VERY	FAST:
	
Sign	the	word	“run”	while
scrunching	your	eyebrows	together	and	clenching	your
jaw	tight	with	your	mouth	slightly	open.
	
Some	adverbs	used	in	English,	such	as	the	words	
very
	
and	
really
	
,	are
also	used	in	ASL.	Others	must	be	incorporated	into	the	verb	by	using
facial	expressions.
Talking	Tenses
To	communicate	tenses	in	Sign,	you	need	your	hands	
and
	
your	body.
Showing	tense	in	ASL	is	partly	a	matter	of	where	you	sign	in	relation	to	your
body.
Think	of	your	body	as	being	in	the	present	tense,	which	is	a	fairly	safe
assumption,	we	hope.To	place	everything	you	sign	into	past	tense,	you	sign	
finish
	
at	chest	level	or
higher,	depending	on	the	level	of	intensity,	at	either	the	beginning	or	end	of
the	sentence	(most	signers	do	it	at	the	beginning	for	clarity),	while	saying	the
word	
fish,
	
a	shortened	version	of	
finish.
	
This	sign	signals	that	everything	has
already	happened.
You	can	also	use	the	
finish
	
sign	when	making	an	exclamation.	(For	more	on
this	sign’s	uses,	see	the	section	“
Exclaiming	in	Simple	Sentences
	
”	later	in
this	chapter.)
Signing	in	future	tense	works	pretty	much	the	same	way	as	signing	in	past
tense.	You	indicate	future	tense	by	signing	and	saying	
will
	
at	the	end	of	a
sentence.	The	farther	you	sign	the	word	
will
	
from	the	front	of	your	body,	the
farther	into	the	future	you	go.	Here’s	an	example:	
English:
	
He	will	go	later.
Sign:
	
HE	GO	—	WILL
You	can	also	sign	
will
	
to	show	affirmation.	For	example:
English:
	
Mike	is	walking	over	to	my	house.
Sign:
	
MY	HOUSE	—	M-I-K-E	—	WALK—	WILLYou	can	easily	sign	an	event	that’s	going	to	happen	in	the	future.	A	simple
rule	to	follow:	Mention	what’s	planned	or	intended	and	then	sign	
will.
	
Here’s	a	time-sensitive	concept	that	doesn’t	quite	fit	into	past,
present,	or	future	tense.	To	show	that	you’re	not	yet	finished	with	or	you
haven’t	even	started	a	task,	sign	the	unaccomplished	deed	and	then	sign
not	yet
	
while	shaking	your	head	slightly	from	side	to	side,	as	if	saying
no,
	
at	the	end	of	the	sentence.	You	don’t	pronounce	
not	yet,
	
though;	you
simply	sign	it.	The	following	sentence	gives	you	an	idea	of	how	you	can
use	this	expression:	
English:
	
I	haven’t	eaten.
Sign:
	
ME	EAT	—	NOT	YETStructuring	Sentences
Putting	a	sentence	together	in	English	is	pretty	basic.	You	usually	put	it	in
subject-verb-direct	object	order,	perhaps	throwing	in	an	indirect	object
between	the	verb	and	the	direct	object.	In	ASL,	however,	you	can	choose	to
assemble	your	sentence	in	different	orders,	depending	on	the	dialogue.
	
You	can	sign	simple	sentences	in	a	natural	English	order.	However,
most	of	the	time,	you	can	get	your	point	across	in	a	variety	of	ways.
Although	Sign	is	an	official	language,	it	isn’t	a	written	one.	Some	people
have	attempted	to	make	an	artificial	Sign	system	for	writing	purposes,	but
few	people	know	it	because	its	use	is	so	limited.	Because	ASL	isn’t	meant	to
be	a	written	language,	it	has	no	punctuation.	To	write	about	Sign,	as	in	this
book,	you	must	translate	it	as	closely	as	possible	into	a	written	language	such
as	English.
Subjecting	yourself	to	nouns	and	verbs	in
simple	sentences
Unlike	English	grammar	rules,	which	dictate	that	the	subject	must	go	before
the	verb,	Sign	allows	you	to	put	the	subject	before	or	after	the	verb	when
dealing	with	simple	sentences;	it	doesn’t	matter	which	word	comes	first.	The
same	goes	for	exclamations;	you	can	place	them	at	the	beginning	or	the	end
of	a	simple	sentence	(see	the	section	“
Exclaiming	in	Simple	Sentences
	
”	later
in	this	chapter).	The	following	examples	illustrate	how	simple	sentences
work.English:
	
He	ran.
Sign:
	
HE	RAN
Sign:
	
RAN	HIM
English:
	
She	fell.
Sign:
	
SHE	FELL
Sign:
	
FELL	HER
Placing	subjects	and	objects
To	incorporate	direct	and	indirect	objects	into	your	signing,	first	start	with	a
basic	subject-verb	sentence.	You	can	sign	it	in	subject-verb	or	verb-subject
order.	Here	are	some	examples:	
English:
	
He	sells.
Sign:
	
HE	SELLS
English:
	
I	eat.
Sign:
	
ME	EAT
English:
	
She	drives.
Sign:
	
SHE	DRIVESAlthough	these	short	sentences	get	the	point	across,	the	world	would	be	pretty
boring	if	that’s	how	people	communicated	all	the	time.	So	add	a	direct	object
to	each	of	these	sentences	to	make	them	a	little	more	interesting.
In	case	you	haven’t	had	a	grammar	class	in	a	few	years,	a	
direct	object
	
is	a
word	that	goes	after	the	verb	and	answers	the	question	
what?
	
or	
whom?
However,	in	ASL,	the	direct	object	can	go	either	before	the	subject	or	after
the	verb.
English:
	
He	sells	food.
Sign:
	
HE	SELLS	FOOD
Sign:
	
FOOD	HE	SELLS
English:
	
I	eat	pizza.
Sign:
	
ME	EAT	PIZZA
Sign:
	
PIZZA	ME	EAT
English:
	
She	drives	a	car.
Sign:
	
SHE	DRIVES	CAR
Sign:
	
CAR	SHE	DRIVES	
If	you	have	a	sentence	that	may	be	misunderstood	if	you	change	the
word	order,	leave	it	in	the	natural	English	order.	For	example,	if	you
want	to	say	
Joe	loves	Sue,
	
you	need	to	sign	JOE	LOVES	SUE.	Changing
it	around	to	SUE	LOVES	JOE	doesn’t	convey	the	same	meaning.
(Having	said	that,	we	really	hope	that	Sue	does	love	Joe	in	return.)
Okay.	So	you’re	signing	sentences	with	direct	objects.	Now,	try	to	take
your	signing	skills	one	step	further	by	signing	
indirect	objects.
	
(Another
quick	grammar	reminder:	Indirect	objects	are	words	that	come	between
the	verb	and	direct	object;	they	indicate	who	or	what	receives	the	direct
object.)	You	place	the	indirect	object	right	after	the	subject	and	then
show	the	action.	These	sentences	show	you	the	correct	order:	
English:
The	girl	throws	the	dog	a	bone.
Sign:
	
DOG	BONE	—	GIRL	—	THROWEnglish:
	
I	gave	the	teacher	an	apple.
Sign:
	
ME	TEACHER	—	APPLE	GAVE
	
Signing	sentences	in	an	understandable	order	may	be	a	bit	tricky	atfirst.	If	the	person	you’re	signing	to	is	leaning	forward,	has	an
inquisitive	look,	or	seems	distracted,	he	or	she	probably	doesn’t
understand	you.	You	may	want	to	try	signing	the	thought	in	a	different
way.
Signin’	the	Sign
	
Linda	and	Buddy	are	at	work.	The	restaurant	will	be	opening	in	one	hour,	and	they’re	taking
a	quick	breather	before	it	opens.
Linda:
The	chairs	look	nice.
Sign:
CHAIRS	—	LOOK	NICE
Buddy:
That	pizza	smells	good.
Sign:
PIZZA	—	SMELLS	GOODLinda:
We’re	finished.	I’m	going	to	eat	now.
Sign:
WE	FINISH	—	NOW	—	ME	EAT
Buddy:
Sit.	I’ll	bring	you	some	pizza.
Sign:
SIT	—	PIZZA	—	BRING	YOU	—	WILLLinda:
Throw	me	an	apple,	too.
Sign:
APPLE	—	THROW	ME	—	TOO
Exclaiming	in	Simple	Sentences
Exclamations	in	all	languages	tell	the	listener	how	you	feel	about	a	subject.
Sign	is	no	different.	Exclamation	is	used	a	lot	in	Sign;	both	signer	and
receiver	use	it.	As	in	English,	you	can	also	use	exclamation	to	show	
how
strong	you	feel	or	don’t	feel	about	something.	Other	signers	who	are
watching	can	sign	what	they	feel	about	what	you’ve	signed,	too.	You	can	signexclamations	at	the	beginning	or	end	of	the	sentence.	Most,	but	not	all,
exclamations	in	Sign	have	English	equivalents.	Following	is	a	list	of	some	of
the	more	popular	Sign	exclamations.	Ask	your	Deaf	friends	to	sign	these
expressions	to	get	a	clear	picture	because	the	face	will	tell	a	thousand	words.
OH/I	SEE
WHAT:
	
This	exclamation	is	fingerspelled	simply	as	W-T;	it’s	only	used	as	a
one-word	exclamation	(as	“What?!”).
	
	
FINISH:
	
Although	finish	is	used	at	the	beginning	of	a	sentence	to	show	past
tense	(see	the	section	“
Talking	Tenses
	
”	earlier	in	this	chapter),	it’s	also	used	as
humor	in	Sign	to	indicate	“enough	already”	and	as	a	reprimand	meaning	“stop
that.”	You	sign	the	word,	using	just	one	hand,	and	you	pronounce	the	word
“fish,”	which	is	a	shortened	version	of	the	sign	for	“finish,”	as	stated	earlier.	You
can	tell	by	the	context	of	the	conversation	which	way	it’s	being	used.
OH	MY	GOSHWOW
OOH:
	
(Also	known	as	“flick”):	Start	with	your	hand	in	the	“8”	handshape,	then
change	it	to	a	“5”	sign	handshape	using	a	quick	flicking	motion	with	your	middle
finger.
COOL
Signin’	the	Sign
	
Adan	and	Aurora	will	be	celebrating	their	50th	wedding	anniversary.	Adan	wants	to	stay
home	and	celebrate,	while	Aurora	wants	to	go	out.	See	how	their	conversation	unfolds.
Aurora:
Wow!	Our	50th	anniversary!
Sig.n:
ANNIVERSARY	—	50	YEARS	—	US	—	WOWAdan:
Ooh,	that’s	a	long	time!
Sign:
(flick!)	—	LONG	TIME	—	SO	FAR
Aurora:
Where	do	you	want	to	celebrate?Sign:
CELEBRATION	—	WHERE	GO	—	Q
Adan:
The	living	room.
Sign:
(point)	—	LIVING	ROOM
Aurora:
Oh,	I	see.	Why?
Sign:
OH	I	SEE	WHY	—	Q
Adan:
It’s	inexpensive.
Sign:
CHEAP
Aurora:
You	stop	that!
Sign:
FINISH
Signing	Conditional	Sentences
A	conditional	sentence	occurs	when	a	circumstance	is	added	to	a	sentence.	A
circumstance
	
is	a	phrase	that	usually	starts	with	a	conditional	word,	such	as
“if”	or	“suppose.”
	
Sign	the	conditional	word	while	raising	your	eyebrows,	but	then
follow	with	the	rest	of	the	conditional	phrase	and	sentence	with	your
eyebrows	back	down	in	their	normal	position.
Consider	this	example:
English:
	
If	you	order	beer,	I’ll	order	wine.Sign:
	
IF	BEER	ORDER	YOU	—	WINE	ORDER	ME
Personification:	The	Secret	of	Agents
In	ASL,	turning	a	verb	into	a	person	is	called	
personification.
	
You	do	it	with
two	simple	motions:	Sign	the	verb	and	then	glide	the	heels	of	your	hands
down	the	sides	of	your	body	with	your	fingers	extended	outward.	The	result
of	this	is	an	
agent.
	
Look	at	this	list	to	see	what	we	mean.
WRITE	+	AGENT	=	WRITERFLY	+	AGENT	=	PILOT
SUPERVISE	+	AGENT	=	SUPERVISOR
COOK	+	AGENT	=	CHEF
LAW	+	AGENT	=	LAWYERMANAGE	+	AGENT	=	MANAGER
Clarifying	with	Classifiers
Classifiers	in	ASL	may	sound	complicated	but	they	are	not;	they	are	a	fun
way	to	explain	the	finer	points	of	the	message	you	are	conveying.	Once	you
get	the	hang	of	them,	you	can	show	off	your	skill	to	your	Deaf	friends	and	let
them	teach	you	more	about	classifiers.
Classifiers	are	nothing	more	than	handshapes	that	are	grouped	into	categories
with	a	specific	purpose	as	describing	something,	showing	relationships,
demonstrating	something,	or	taking	the	place	of	an	object.	Therefore,	think	of
them	as	handshapes	that	can	represent	a	person,	place,	or	a	thing	by	showing
how	things	are	positioned	or	shaped.	You	can	show	what	happens	to	these
agents	once	they	are	set	up	as	classifiers;	classifiers	clarify	your	point.	This	is
why	they	are	called	
Size	and	Shape	Classifiers
	
.	Since	classifiers	show
detailed	information,	do	not	use	them	until	
after
	
you	have	explained	the
subject	of	the	matter	then	explain	the	specifics	by	using	classifiers.	Classifiers
will	give	the	addressee	all	the	specifics	your	hands	can	handle.
Here	are	some	ideas	to	get	you	started.	If	you	need	a	little	help,	let	me	give
you	a	hand;	go	to	the	“
Spelling	with	your	fingers
	
”	section	of	
Chapter	1
	
and
see	the	handshapes	for	A,	C,	and	F.
The	manual	letter-
A
	
handshape
	
with	the	thumb	pointing	upward	can	beany	object	that	is	erect	as	a	vase,	a	stop	sign	on	a	street,	or	a	computer
tower	on	the	floor.	Identify	the	object	first	and	then	use	the	classifier	to
represent	it.
The	manual	letter-
C
	
handshape
	
can	be	a	muscle	on	an	arm,	a	drinking
glass,	or	a	wad	of	dollars	in	the	hand.	This	classifier	can	be	anything	in	an
arch	shape.
The	manual	letter-
F
	
handshape
	
can	be	coins	on	a	hand,	small	rocks,	or
polka	dots	on	a	shirt,	anything	in	a	small	round	shape.Chapter	3
Starting	to	Sign	Basic	Expressions
IN	THIS	CHAPTER
Starting	or	joining	in	a	conversation
	
Getting	to	know	others
	
Relaying
information	through	Constructed	Dialogue	and	Constructed	Action
This	chapter	sets	you	off	on	the	right	foot	(or	hand!)	to	meet	and	greet	fellow
signers	and	start	signing	basic	expressions.	You	can	acquaint	yourself	with
American	Sign	Language	by	watching	Deaf	people	sign.	Being	included	in	a
conversation	is	a	great	transition	for	conversing	in	ASL.	Don’t	worry	about
signing	perfectly.	Deaf	people	will	know	that	you’re	a	novice	signer	—	just
have	fun	with	it.
	
Interacting	with	other	signers	is	an	important	part	of	getting	the
basics	under	your	belt.	You’ll	find	that	all	signers,	Deaf	and	hearing,
have	different	styles.	Like	English,	the	words	are	the	same,	but	no	two
people	talk	alike.	Setting	a	goal	to	be	clear	is	a	must.	Your	style	will
come	naturally.
Initiating	a	Conversation
Most	people	who	learn	ASL	look	forward	to	signing	with	others.	Attending
functions	with	other	signers	gives	ample	opportunity	to	practice	Sign.	At
Deaf	functions,	signed	conversation	happens	everywhere.	If	you’re	invited	by
a	Deaf	person,	allow	the	person	to	introduce	you	to	others	—	great
conversations	start	this	way.	If	you’re	on	your	own	and	want	to	strike	up	a
conversation,	this	section	tells	you	how	to	properly	get	someone’s	attention
and	provides	some	ideas	for	conversation	starters.
	
If	Deaf	people	correct	your	signing,	view	this	as	a	compliment	andtake	no	offense.	They	see	you	as	a	worthy	investment.
	
When	you	initiate	a	conversation,	you	want	to	avoid	
to	be
	
verbs.
These	verb	types	set	up	ASL	conversation	in	the	passive	form	of
speaking,	and	ASL	must	always	be	in	the	active	form.	So	if	you	use	
to
be
	
verbs,	Deaf	people	will	have	difficulty	reading	your	ASL.	In	a
nutshell,	follow	this	rule:	Never	sign	
am,	are,	was,	were,	be,	being,
	
or
been.
	
They	aren’t	used	in	ASL.	You	may	see	signs	for	these	words	as
you’re	out	and	about,	but	they’ve	been	invented	to	teach	Deaf	children
English,	so	don’t	use	them.
	
Is,	as	a	verb,
	
does	not	have	a	hand	in	ASL.	It	is	used	for	affirmation
so	put	the	Sign	TRUE	at	the	end	of	a	sentence	for	anything	declarative.
Attracting	someone’s	attention
Attracting	someone’s	attention	is	easy	in	English.	A	simple	yell	turns	many
heads.	To	get	a	Deaf	person’s	attention,	tap	the	person	on	the	shoulder	or	the
back	of	the	arm	between	the	elbow	and	the	shoulder.	Waving	at	someone	is
another	good	way	to	get	attention.	A	wooden	floor	is	also	a	big	help	—
stomping	on	the	floor	is	an	acceptable	and	popular	attention-getter.	Deaf
people	feel	the	vibration	on	the	floor	and	turn	to	see	its	origination.
	
Another	way	to	get	someone’s	attention	is	to	make	and	maintain	eye
contact.	You	can	tell	someone	across	a	crowded	room	that	you	havesomething	on	your	mind	by	catching	the	person’s	eye.	And	then,	after
eye	contact	has	been	made	and	you’ve	approached	each	other,	you	can
proceed	with	a	conversation.	Non-signers	may	view	this	action	as	staring
and	think	that	it’s	rude,	but	in	the	Deaf	world,	making	and	maintaining
eye	contact	is	a	necessary	common	practice.
	
Never	throw	objects	at	a	Deaf	person	to	get	the	person’s	attention.
Besides	being	just	plain	rude,	it’s	also	dangerous.	ASL	is	a	visual
language,	so	Deaf	people	really	value	their	eyesight.	Accidentally	hitting
someone	in	the	eye	could	be	devastating,	and	you	could	get	hit	back!
Using	greetings	and	closings
Asking	questions	is	probably	the	most	popular	way	to	start	a	conversation.
You	can	ask	a	person’s	name,	sign	yours,	ask	what	school	the	person
attended,	and	so	on.	Many	Deaf	people	attended	one	of	the	residential	schools
for	the	Deaf	that	are	located	throughout	the	United	States;	you	may	have	a
city	in	common.	You	can	also	start	a	conversation	with	a	simple	
hi
	
or	
hello,
followed	by	
nice	to	meet	you.
	
These	greetings	work	with	Deaf	people	of	all
ages.	Signing	
What’s	up?
	
is	a	simple,	informal	greeting	that’s	a	great	opener,
too.
Shaking	hands	and	giving	hugs	are	also	common	additions	to	Deaf	greetings.
Hand-shaking	is	more	formal	than	hugging,	just	as	is	true	in	the	hearing
world.
You	can	join	a	conversation	easily	by	using	one	of	the	following	openings:
HI/HELLO
NICE	TO	MEET	YOU
EXCUSE	ME
PLEASEHONORARY	INTRO
HOW	ARE	YOU?
	
If	you	ask	a	question,	raise	your	eyebrows	and	tilt	your	head	forward;
doing	so	shows	others	that	your	sentence	is	a	question	and	that	you’re
waiting	for	a	response.	Try	these	simple	questions:	
English:
	
Do	you
sign?
Sign:
	
SIGN	YOU	Q
English:
	
Are	you	deaf?
Sign:
	
DEAF	YOU	QEnglish:
	
How	are	you?
Sign:
	
WHAT’S	UP
	
When	you	see	two	people	standing	close	together	and	signing	small,
don’t	stare.	They	may	be	having	a	private	conversation.
	
Chewing	gum	is	a	no-no	in	Sign.	Mouth	movement	is	an	important
part	of	signed	communication.	Do	everyone	a	favor	and	keep	chewing
and	signing	separate.
When	you’re	ready	to	end	a	conversation,	here	are	a	couple	signs	that	are	sure
to	help:
GOODBYE
SEE	YOU	LATERYOU’RE	WELCOME
Signin’	the	Sign
	
Buddy	and	Della	are	at	the	park.	Buddy	sees	Della	make	a	gesture	that	looks	like	a	sign	and
decides	to	approach	her.
Buddy:
Do	you	sign?
Sign:
SIGN	YOU	Q
Della:
Yes,	are	you	deaf?
Sign:
YES	—	DEAF	YOU	QBuddy:
No,	my	sister	is	deaf.
Sign:
NO	—	MY	SISTER	—	DEAF
Della:
Oh,	I	see;	you	sign	well.
Sign:
OH	I	SEE	—	SIGN	SKILL	YOU
Getting	Acquainted
Meeting	new	friends	is	always	exciting.	Getting	acquainted	with	Deaf	friendsMeeting	new	friends	is	always	exciting.	Getting	acquainted	with	Deaf	friends
is	very	much	like	getting	acquainted	with	people	who	hear,	but	you	need	to
keep	in	mind	a	few	important	points.	This	section	spells	them	out	for	you.
As	you	get	acquainted	with	folks,	keep	these	tips	in	mind:
During	introductions,	simply	
fingerspell
	
(sign	each	letter	individually)
your	name.
	
Deaf	people	are	the	only	ones	who	give	name	signs.	Those
who	can	hear	don’t	invent	their	own,	nor	do	they	give	name	signs	to	each
other.	(See	the	nearby	sidebar	for	more	on	what	exactly	name	signs	are.)
Keep	in	mind	that	when	someone	asks	you	your	name,	sign	your	first	and
last	name	—	it’s	good	manners.
Titles,	such	as	Mr.,	Mrs.,	and	Ms.,	aren’t	used	in	ASL.	Simply	spell	out	the
person’s	name.
Follow	the	conversation	that’s	started	and	do	your	best	to	understand
what	you	can.
	
If	you	don’t	catch	something,	don’t	interrupt	the	signer.
Wait	until	they	finished.	You	may	be	able	to	put	it	all	together.	It	is	possible
that	you	will	get	the	gist	at	the	end	of	the	conversation	and	won’t	need
clarification.
Keep	a	steady	hand.
	
Your	signs	are	easier	to	read	when	your	hand	isn’t
shaking.
Ask	questions	for	clarification.
	
Don’t	be	embarrassed	if	you	don’t
understand	something.	Asking	questions	is	the	best	way	to	learn.
WHAT’S	IN	A	NAME	SIGN?
Name	signs	aren’t	formal	names;	they’re	manual	letters	that	express	some	characteristic	of	a	person,	or
even	just	a	manual	letter	or	letters	that	represent	someone’s	name.	Having	a	name	sign	allows	everyone
in	the	Deaf	community	to	know	who	you’re	talking	about	and	helps	avoid	constantly	having	to
fingerspell	someone’s	name.	You	sign	name	signs	on	the	signer’s	body	or	in	front	of	the	signer.	You
normally	make	the	handshape	of	the	first	letter	of	a	person’s	first	name	and,	sometimes,	last	name(s).
Signin’	the	Sign
	
Dee	and	Cameron	are	meeting	for	the	first	time.	They’re	making	their	introductions.
Dee:
Hi,	I’m	Dee.Sign:
HI	—	D-E-E	ME
Cameron:
Nice	to	meet	you.	I’m	Cameron.
Sign:
NICE	MEET	YOU	—	C-A-M-E-R-O-N	ME
Dee:
Nice	to	meet	you,	too.
Sign:
NICE	MEET	TOO
Sharing	feelings	and	emotions
Sharing	your	feelings	and	emotions	when	signing	is	easy	because	Sign	is
naturally	so	expressive.	Put	your	heart	into	what	you’re	signing	to	genuinely
express	what	you	mean.	You	can	express	some	feelings	and	emotions	with
minimal	Sign	and	a	lot	of	facial	expressions	because	people	already
understand	such	expressions.
Take	a	look	at	some	signs	for	feelings	and	emotions:Take	a	look	at	some	signs	for	feelings	and	emotions:
SAD
HAPPY
ANGRY
CURIOUS
Signin’	the	Sign
	
Dee	and	Buddy	are	at	the	store.	Dee	is	shocked	by	the	rising	cost	of	everything.	She	shares
her	displeasure	with	Buddy.
Dee:
Everything	is	so	expensive!
Sign:
EVERYTHING	EXPENSIVEBuddy:
Yes,	and	no	sales.
Sign:
TRUE	—	DISCOUNTS	NONE
Dee:
It’s	sad;	even	stamps	are	going	up.
Sign:
SAD	—	STAMP	COST	—	INCREASE	TOO
Buddy:
It	really	makes	me	angry.
ANGRY	MESign:
ANGRY	ME
Dee:
Me,	too.
Sign:
ME	TOO
Connecting	your	thoughts
When	you’re	ready	to	connect	your	thoughts	in	ASL,	use	the	signs	in	this
section	for	connectors.	Remember	that	clarity	is	the	key	to	a	successful
conversation,	so	as	you	add	more	information,	look	at	the	Deaf	addressee	and
make	sure	that	the	person’s	facial	expression	is	engaged.	If	the	person	asks
you	for	clarification,	don’t	shy	away	from	your	thoughts;	the	Deaf	person	is
trying	to	follow	along,	so	keep	going!
ALSO
BUT
OR
OTHERADDITIONALLY
Talking	about	where	you’re	from
Signing	about	where	you’re	from	is	a	great	way	to	converse	with	a	new
friend.	Because	it	can	lead	to	other	topics	of	conversation,	it’s	a	common
icebreaker	and	will	help	you	practice	your	Sign	vocabulary.	You	can	practice
your	fingerspelling	—	you	may	not	know	the	sign	of	a	particular	location,	or
it	may	not	have	a	sign	—	and	expand	your	geographical	knowledge.	For
example,	you	could	sign	about	different	famous	landmarks	and	tourist	sites.
Countries
	
Signing	in	every	country	is	different.	Although	some	countries	have
similar	sign	languages,	no	two	are	exactly	alike.
When	two	Deaf	people	from	different	countries	meet,	their	chances	of
communicating	are	pretty	good	because	they’re	both	skilled	at	making	their
points	known	in	their	respective	countries.	Although	their	sign	languages	arepoints	known	in	their	respective	countries.	Although	their	sign	languages	are
different,	their	communication	skills	may	involve	mime,	writing,	gestures,
and	pointing.	People	who	can	hear	can	also	do	those	things,	but	their
communication	skills	are	usually	more	dependent	on	listening	to	the	spoken
language.
	
Some	country	name	signs	that	are	used	in	ASL	are	offensive	to	those
respective	countries.	For	instance,	the	ASL	sign	for	Mexico	also	means
“bandit,”	and	the	signs	for	Korea,	Japan,	and	China	are	signed	near	the
eye	with	a	hand	movement	that	indicates	“slanted	eyes.”	Many	signers
are	now	using	the	indigenous	name	signs	that	are	politically	correct	and
aren’t	offensive.
Here	are	the	signs	for	the	countries	in	North	America:
CANADA
UNITED	STATES/AMERICA
MEXICO
Here	are	the	signs	for	some	European	countries:
ENGLAND
FRANCESPAIN
States,	cities,	and	other	locations
	
Many	states	and	cities	have	name	signs	or	abbreviations,	but	it’s	okay
to	ask	someone	to	fingerspell	a	place	if	you	don’t	understand.
Some	common	state	and	city	signs	are	in	
Table	3-1
	
.
TABLE	3-1
	
Signs	for	Various	Cities	and	States
English
Sign
English
Sign
ARIZONA
ATLANTA
CALIFORNIA
BOSTON
COLORADO
DENVER
FLORIDA
HOUSTON
KENTUCKY
LOS	ANGELES
MINNESOTA
MIAMI
NEW	YORK
PITTSBURGH
TEXAS
	
	
Signin’	the	Sign
	
Lindsey	is	telling	Angie	about	a	road	trip	he	and	Buddy	are	taking	to	visit	friends	in	several
states.
Lindsey:
Buddy	and	I	are	taking	a	trip.
Sign:
B-U-D-D-Y	(point)	ME	—	TRAVEL	—	WILLAngie:
Wow!	Sounds	like	a	fun	time.
Sign:
WOW	—	SEEMS	FUN
Lindsey:
We’re	going	to	Texas,	California,	and	Colorado.
Sign:
US	TRAVEL	WHERE	—	TEXAS	CALIFORNIA	COLORADOAngie:
Will	you	see	Chip?
Sign:
YOU	SEE	C-H-I-P	Q
Lindsey:
Yes,	Chip’s	in	Los	Angeles.
Sign:
YES	—	C-H-I-P	LALocations	add	the	details	to	what	you’re	signing.	Details	are	the	key	to	clear
and	precise	conversation.	The	following	location	signs	will	help:
BRIDGE
LAKE
CORNER
TREE
MOUNTAIN
RIVER
FLOWERGRASS
FOUNTAIN
Signin’	the	Sign
Dee	and	Ted	are	in	Japan.	They’re	in	awe	of	the	beautiful	country	and	are	sharing	their	feelings	about
the	experience.
Dee:
The	trees	are	beautiful	in	Japan.
Sign:
JAPAN	—	TREES	—	BEAUTIFUL
The	mountains	are	so	high.Ted:
The	mountains	are	so	high.
Sign:
MOUNTAINS	HIGH
Dee:
There	are	so	many	rivers.
Sign:
RIVERS	—	MANY
Acting	the	Part:	Constructed	Dialogue
and	Constructed	Action
One	thing	people	tend	to	do	in	English	when	they	talk	about	a	conversation	is
recall	who	said	what	to	whom.	Sometimes,	the	speaker	has	to	clarify	some
things	so	the	listener	gets	an	accurate	picture.	In	ASL,	the	picture	is	a	lot
clearer	because	you	show,	not	tell.	This	type	of	communication	has	different
names:	
episodic	signing,	role	shifting,
	
or	
Constructed	Action.
	
Constructed
Action	is	the	latest	term	because	it	has	the	latest	research.	Regardless	of	the
term,	the	idea	is	to	construct	a	picture	for	your	addressee	to	convey	what
transpired	in	a	conversation.	Constructed	Action	describes	the	action	of	what
occurred	in	a	conversation,	but	there’s	also	
Constructed	Dialogue,
	
whichfocuses	on	what	was	said.
Constructed	Dialogue
Constructed	Dialogue	is	a	way	to	communicate	the	details	of	what	was	said	in
a	conversation.	This	technique	requires	your	body	to	shift	slightly	from	side
to	side	so	you	can	role	shift.	The	purpose	of	this	shift	is	to	take	on	the
character	of	the	two	people	who	had	the	conversation	you’re	describing.
	
When	you	engage	in	Constructed	Dialogue,	keep	a	couple	of	things
in	mind:	Make	sure	the	person	with	whom	you’re	signing	knows	the
names	of	the	people	you’re	talking	about	and	also	what	the	gist	of	the
conversation	between	the	two	people	was.
	
Here’s	a	scenario	to	show	you	how	Constructed	Dialogue	works:
Sheri	and	Buddy	are	talking	about	Sheri’s	upcoming	wedding.	Sheri
wants	to	let	Buddy	know	that	her	aunts	can’t	agree	on	the	color	of	the
cake.	Sheri	has	already	shared	with	Buddy	what	the	problem	is,	who	is
involved,	and	their	general	thoughts	on	the	subject.
Sheri	shifts	her	body/waist	to	the	left	slightly	and	takes	on	the	role	of	Aunt
Dee,	signing	Aunt	Dee’s	name	once.	After	the	shift,	Sherri	doesn’t	need	to
sign	Aunt	Dee’s	name	again;	she	can	just	shift	her	body	to	the	left.	Aunt	Dee,
when	referred	to,	remains	in	this	position	for	the	duration	of	the	conversation.
Sheri	signs:	
Orange	and	cream	are	too	Halloween-like;	people	are	going	to
think	it’s	a	costume	party.
Because	only	two	people	are	involved	in	the	dialogue	and	Buddy	knows	who
they	are,	introducing	the	name	of	the	other	participant,	Aunt	Denni,	isn’t
necessary,	but	Sheri	may	sign	Aunt	Denni’s	name	just	to	make	sure	she	is
clear.
Sheri	shifts	her	body	slightly	to	the	right	and	begins	to	respond	as	if	she	is
Aunt	Denni:	
Don’t	be	silly,	orange	is	Sheri’s	favorite	color,	and	it	is	her	big
day	after	all.Sheri	shifts	to	the	left	again,	assuming	Aunt	Dee’s	position,	and	signs:	
I	think
we	need	another	opinion.
Sheri	shifts	to	the	right	again,	taking	on	the	role	of	Aunt	Denni,	and	signs:
That	really	isn’t	necessary.
After	you	understand	the	idea	of	Constructed	Dialogue,	start	practicing	it
with	others.	You’ll	find	that	recalling	the	past	with	others	isn’t	that	difficult
and	that	doing	so	adds	a	little	complexity	to	your	signing,	allowing	you	to
follow	others	with	more	certainty	as	they	use	Constructed	Dialogue.
Constructed	Action
Constructed	Action	is	similar	to	Constructed	Dialogue	except	that	you	sign
actions	instead	of	words	from	a	conversation.
	
Here’s	a	scenario:	Wanda	is	talking	to	Della	about	the	new	dress	she
purchased	to	wear	to	a	dinner	last	week.	Wanda	is	telling	Della	that	the
dress	fit	fine	at	the	mall,	but	on	the	night	she	wanted	to	wear	it,	the	dress
was	too	short!
Wanda	shows	Della	exactly	how	she	reacted	by	signing	
put	on	the	dress
	
and
then	
mirror.
	
Wanda	looks	into	the	mirror	and	signs	
short
	
on	her	legs,	exactly
on	the	spot	where	the	dress	comes	to.	Her	facial	expression	is	dumbfounded:
open	mouth	and	wide-eyed	as	she	puts	her	hand	on	her	forehead.	Notice	that
Wanda	doesn’t	sign	any	dialogue,	only	action.
You	can	use	Constructed	Action	for	any	type	of	information	—	humorous,
serious,	or	simply	informative.	As	with	Constructed	Dialogue,	Constructed
Action	takes	some	practice,	but	it	will	sharpen	your	signing	prowess.Chapter	4
Getting	Your	Numbers	and	Times
Straight
IN	THIS	CHAPTER
Signing	cardinal	and	ordinal	numbers
	
Dealing	with	dates
	
Using	ASL	to
express	numbers	and	time
Numbers	are	a	big	part	of	American	Sign	Language.	This	chapter	gives	you
the	lowdown	on	using	numbers	in	all	kinds	of	ways.	We	also	cover
expressions	of	time,	which	come	up	in	conversation	all	the	…	time	(see	what
we	mean?).	If	you	familiarize	yourself	with	the	various	signs	for	numbers	and
time	words,	you’ll	be	better	able	to	converse	with	Deaf	people,	and	they’ll	be
impressed	with	your	ability	to	use	these	signs	in	many	different	types	of
sentences.
Counting	on	Numbers
Did	you	know	that	you	can	count	in	ASL	in	27	different	ways?	That’s	a
pretty	cool	piece	of	trivia,	but	for	this	book,	we	concentrate	on	just	two	of
those	ways	—	cardinal	numbers	and	ordinal	numbers.	If	you’d	like	to	check
out	some	other	ways	to	count,	Gallaudet	University	and	the	National
Technical	Institute	of	the	Deaf	are	great	resources.
Cardinal
	
(counting)	and	
ordinal
	
(ordering)	numbers	will	get	you	through
everyday	situations,	such	as	counting	the	millions	you	won	on	the	lottery,
giving	your	address	and	phone	number	to	the	movie	star	who	wants	to	get	to
know	you	better,	and	telling	your	mom	that	you	won	the	first	Pulitzer	Prize	in
your	family.
	
When	you	want	to	specify	more	than	one	item	—	that	is,	express	a
plural	—	you	sign	the	item	first,	followed	by	the	quantity.	Unlike
English,	you	don’t	have	to	change	the	item	to	a	plural	by	adding	“s.”	Agood	way	to	remember	this	is	to	keep	in	mind	that	you	need	to	show
what	the	item	is	before	you	can	tell	someone	how	many	items	there	are.
For	example:	
English:
	
Two	books
Sign:
	
BOOK	TWO
English:
	
Four	cars
Sign:
	
CAR	FOUR
	
To	count	as	you’re	going	through	a	list,	whether	you’re	using	ordinal
or	cardinal	numbers,	notice	whether	the	list	goes	straight	down	or	in	a
row.	Follow	the	pattern	in	the	list	when	you	sign;	just	count	with	a	smallmotion	either	sideways	or	downward.	This	is	extra	information	that
allows	your	viewer	to	see	the	organization	of	the	list.
Getting	from	one	to	ten	with	cardinal
numbers
Being	able	to	give	numerical	information	in	ASL	opens	many	doors.	You	can
give	someone	your	phone	number,	make	an	appointment,	and	warn	a
potential	guest	that	you	have	12	—	yes	12!	—	cats	and	two	angry	neighbors.
	
When	you’re	indicating	quantity	and	counting	things,	sign	the
numbers	1	through	5	and	11	through	15	with	your	palm	facing	you	and
the	numbers	6	through	10	and	16	through	19	with	your	palm	facing	the
person	to	whom	you’re	signing.
Just	as	in	English,	there	are	exceptions	to	every	rule,	especially	the	one	about
which	way	your	palm	faces.	To	tell	time	in	Sign,	let	your	dominant	(active)
index	finger	touch	your	other	wrist	in	the	place	where	you’d	wear	a	watch,
and	then	use	your	dominant	hand	to	sign	the	appropriate	hour	(number),	with
your	palm	facing	toward	the	person	you’re	signing	(see	the	later	section
“
Talking	about	Time
	
”	for	more	on	signing	time	expressions).	The	same
palm-facing-outward	rule	applies	to	addresses	and	phone	numbers	(see
“
Signing	phone	numbers	and	the	like
	
,”	later	in	the	chapter).
Table	4-1
	
shows	you	how	to	sign	the	cardinal	numbers	1	through	19.
TABLE	4-1
	
Cardinal	Numbers
English
Sign
English
Sign
ONE
TWO
THREE
FOUR
FIVE
SIX
SEVEN
EIGHT
NINE
TEN
ELEVEN
TWELVE
THIRTEEN
FOURTEEN
FIFTEEN
SIXTEEN
SEVENTEEN
EIGHTEEN
NINETEEN
	
	
To	sign	decade	numbers	—	30,	40,	50,	and	so	on	—	you	sign	the	first	number
(3,	4,	5)	followed	by	the	sign	for	the	number	
0.
	
You	sign	hundreds	—	such	as
600,	700,	800,	and	so	on	—	by	first	signing	the	number	(6,	7,	8)	and	then	the
sign	for	
hundred,
	
as	the	following	examples	show:
THIRTY	(30)
FORTY	(40)
FIFTY	(50)
SIX	HUNDRED	(600)
SEVEN	HUNDRED	(700)
EIGHT	HUNDRED	(800)
Ordering	ordinal	numbers
Ordinal	numbers	show	orderly	placement:	first	cup	of	coffee,	second	chapter,
and	third	base,	for	example.	To	indicate	an	ordinal	number	in	ASL,	twist	your
wrist	inward	while	signing	the	respective	number.
FIRST
SECOND
THIRD
Signing	phone	numbers	and	the	likeSigning	phone	numbers	and	the	like
As	you	meet	more	Deaf	people	and	give	out	your	phone	number,	sign	the
numbers	with	your	palm	facing	outward,	toward	the	person	to	whom	you’re
giving	the	information.	You’ll	also	encounter	some	Deaf	people	who	use
their	index	fingers	to	sign	
parenthesis
	
before	signing	an	area	code.	Doing	so
does	make	the	information	clearer.
You	sign	Social	Security	numbers	like	phone	numbers,	with	your	palm	facing
the	addressee.
Talking	about	Time
In	ASL,	telling	time	can	be	an	important	tool	to	make	sure	that	you’re	never
too	late	or	too	early.	As	you’re	learning	this	valuable	piece	of	information,
always	remember	that	you	should	put	the	expression	of	time	as	close	to	the
beginning	of	the	sentence	as	possible;	that	is,	you	generally	express	the	time
before	the	subject.	This	part	of	a	sentence	in	ASL	allows	the	Deaf	person
with	whom	you’re	conversing	to	get	a	clear	concept	of	when	the	event
happened,	effectively	framing	the	information	that	you’re	about	to	share.	If
you	forget	to	state	the	time	factor	early	in	the	sentence,	just	add	it	when	you
can.
The	time	factor	can	be	a	date,	a	day,	a	month,	“now,”	“dawn,”	“tomorrow,”
“immediately,”	and	so	on.	However,	at	this	
time,
	
the	
idea
	
of	“when”	can	be
as	simple	as	pointing	to	your	watch	and	then	expressing	any	given	hour.	If
you	want	to	say	that	something	happened	in	the	morning,	sign	
morning.
	
If
you	want	to	express	nighttime,	sign	
evening.
The	signs	in	
Table	4-2
	
help	you	express	time.	“Seconds”	doesn’t	have	a	sign,
but	if	you	spell	S-E-C	after	a	number,	your	point	will	be	clear	—	for	example,
three	S-E-C.
	
You	sign	the	following	time	expressions	with	two	signs:	First
touch	your	wrist	to	indicate	a	watch/time	and	then	sign	the	number.	Keep
your	hand	with	your	palm	facing	outward	and	you’ll	be	as	clear	as	Big	Ben
on	a	sunny	day!
TABLE	4-2
	
Time	Signs
English
Sign
English
SignONE	O’CLOCK
TWO	O’CLOCK
FOUR	HOURS
FOUR	HOURS
(variation)
TWO	MINUTES
TEN	MINUTES
DAWN
MORNING
NOON
TWILIGHT
NIGHT
DAY
ALLALL
NIGHT/OVERNIGHT
ARRIVE
SHOW	UP
LEAVE	(formal)
LEAVE	(informal)
STAY
ON	THE	DOT
	
	Signing	calendar	dates
We’re	all	slaves	to	our	day	planners	and	schedules,	and	the	Deaf	are	no
different.	They	rely	on	their	calendars	like	everyone	else.	To	sign	months	of
the	year	in	ASL,	you	fingerspell	them.	You	may	see	a	person	signing
calendar
	
while	using	the	first	letter	of	the	month	incorporated	in	the	sign.
This	can	get	confusing	because	three	months	start	with	the	letter	“J,”	two	start
with	the	letter	“M,”	and	two	start	with	the	letter	“A.”	This	method	isn’t
uncommon,	but	it’s	not	formal	signing	either.	Until	you	get	your	feet	under
you,	fingerspell	the	months	of	the	year.
Here	are	a	couple	of	examples:
J-A-N	22,	2022
Here	you	fingerspell	each	letter	of	the	month,	sign	22,	and	then	sign	2,	0,	and
22.
	
When	two	numbers	are	the	same,	point	your	palm	downward	facing
the	ground	and	then	sign	the	number	from	one	side	to	the	other.
N-O-V	17,	2022
Again,	fingerspell	the	month,	sign	17,	then	sign	2,	0,	and	22.
	
The	months	that	you	can	abbreviate	are	Jan.,	Feb.,	Aug.,	Sept.,	Oct.,
Nov.,	and	Dec.
The	months	that	you	should	completely	spell	out	are	March,	April,	May,
June,	and	July.Signin’	the	Sign
	
Ted	is	going	to	Della’s	house	for	a	visit.	Della	is	giving	Ted	directions	in	hopes	that	he’ll
arrive	on	time.
Della:
Can	you	come	over	to	my	house	at	7	P.M.?
Sign:
7	P.M.	—	MY	HOUSE	—	COME	—	CAN	YOU	—	Q
Ted:
Yes,	I	can.
Sign:
YES	—	CAN	MEDella:
Remember,	it’s	329	West	Drive.
Sign:
REMEMBER	—	HOUSE	—	WEST	—	D-R	—	3-2-9
Ted:
Can	you	give	me	directions?
Sign:
DIRECTIONS	—	GIVE	ME	—	CAN	—	QDella:
Right	on	West	Drive;	the	third	house	on	the	right.
Sign:
HOUSE	—	THIRD	RIGHT	—	STREET	—	WEST	—	D-RChapter	5
Signing	at	Home
IN	THIS	CHAPTER
Discovering	signs	for	your	house	and	furnishings
	
Signing	various
holidays
	
Using	some	signs	for	family	life
In	this	chapter	you	find	things	all	around	the	house	to	identify	using
American	Sign	Language.	As	you	go	about	your	house,	try	to	sign	as	many
items	as	you	can	as	you	move	from	room	to	room.	When	you	feel	you’ve
conquered	several	rooms,	start	stringing	the	signs	into	short	sentences.	Later
in	the	chapter,	you	discover	signs	for	holidays	and	signs	to	help	you
communicate	with	children.
Handling	Signs	about	Your	Home
You	can	give	guests	the	grand	tour	of	your	home	without	uttering	a	sound.
Notice	how	the	signs	in	
Table	5-1
	
let	your	fingers	do	the	talking.
TABLE	5-1
	
Dwelling	Signs
English
Sign
English
Sign
DOOR
FLOOR
GARAGE
HOME
HOUSE
LIVE
LOCK
OWN
RENT
WINDOW
YARD
UPSTAIRS
DOWNSTAIRS
	
	
	
To	sign	
condo,
	
you	fingerspell	C-O-N-D-O,	and	to	sign	
apartment,
you	use	the	abbreviation	and	fingerspell	just	A-P-T.
English:
	
Do	you	own	your	home	or	rent?
Sign:
	
YOUR	HOME	—	OWN	—	RENT	WHICH	QEnglish:
	
The	door	is	locked.
Sign:
	
DOOR	—	LOCKED
English:
	
The	garage	has	a	window.
Sign:
	
GARAGE	—	WINDOW	HAVEEnglish:
	
His	house	is	big.
Sign:
	
HIS	HOUSE	—	BIG
English:
	
Can	I	go	upstairs?
Sign:
	
UPSTAIRS	—	GO	ME	CAN	QTouring	all	the	rooms
Touring	a	house	room	by	room	yields	many	surprises.	One	surprise	is	that
each	room	has	its	own	sign.	(Well,	maybe	that’s	not	so	surprising.)	
Table	5-2
gives	most	of	them.
TABLE	5-2
	
Rooms
English
Sign
English
Sign
BASEMENT
BATHROOM
BEDROOM
CLOSET
DINING	ROOM
KITCHEN
LIVING	ROOM
	
	
	
The	sign	for	
closet
	
has	several	motions,	so	here’s	some	explanation:
With	your	dominant	hand,	make	a	hook	with	your	index	finger.	Thisfinger	acts	as	a	hanger.	Your	passive	index	finger	acts	as	a	pole	on
which	to	put	the	hangers.	Put	several	“hangers”	onto	the	“pole.”
	
To	get	the	attention	of	a	Deaf	person	in	a	room	you’re	entering,	flick
the	light	off	and	on	—	that	will	do	the	trick.
English:
	
Can	I	use	the	bathroom?
Sign:
	
BATHROOM	—	USE	ME	CAN	Q
English:
	
Is	this	your	bedroom?
Sign:
	
BEDROOM	—	YOURS	QEnglish:
	
The	kitchen	is	hot.
Sign:
	
KITCHEN	—	HOT
English:
	
Don’t	play	in	the	living	room.
Sign:
	
LIVING	ROOM	—	PLAY	THERE	—	DON’TFurnishing	your	home
After	you	have	rooms,	you	can	start	filling	them	with	furniture.	
Table	5-3
shows	you	the	signs	for	everything	from	window	treatments	to	carpet.
TABLE	5-3
	
Home	Furnishings
English
Sign
English
Sign
BED
BLINDS
CARPET
CHAIR
COUCH
CURTAINS
LAMP
LOVE	SEAT
PICTURES
RECLINER
TABLE
VASE
	
After	you	have	the	sign	for	
chair
	
down,	you’ll	have	no	problem	with
love	seat
	
or	
couch.
	
To	sign	
love	seat,
	
sign	chair	(double	motion),	and
then,	with	the	same	handshape,	put	your	dominant	hand	next	to	your
passive	hand	to	show	a	couch	for	two.	To	sign	
couch,
	
make	the	sign	for
chair	(single	motion),	and	then	move	your	dominant	hand	outward	to
show	several	seats.
If	you’re	comfortable	with	these	furnishings,	try	the	following	sentences.
English:
	
Sit	on	the	couch.
Sign:
	
COUCH	—	SITEnglish:
	
Turn	on	the	lamp.
Sign:
	
LAMP	O-N
English:
	
My	carpet	is	white.
Sign:
	
MY	CARPET	—	WHITE
English:
	
The	picture	is	pretty.
Sign:
	
PICTURE	—	PRETTYSignin’	the	Sign
	
Dave	and	Debbie	have	just	purchased	their	first	house.	Here’s	what	they	have	to	say	about	it.
Dave:
The	house	has	a	big	yard.
Sign:
HOUSE	YARD	—	BIG
Debbie:
I	want	to	see	the	kitchen.
Sign:
KITCHEN	—	WANT	SEE	MEDave:
We	need	a	couch,	lamp,	and	pictures.
Sign:
COUCH	LAMP	PICTURES	—	NEED	US
Debbie:
It’s	great	to	own,	not	rent,	a	house.
Sign:
HOUSE	—	OWN	GREAT	—	RENT	NOTHanging	Out	for	the	Holidays
The	holidays	and	other	yearly	celebrations	are	an	enjoyable	time	for	family
and	friends	to	gather	’round	and	join	in	the	festive	good	cheer.	Partake	in	the
festivities	with	your	Deaf	friends	by	practicing	the	signs	in	
Table	5-4
	
.
TABLE	5-4
	
Holiday	Signs
English
Sign
English
SignCHRISTMAS
EASTER
VALENTINE’S
DAY
THANKSGIVING
MOTHER’S	DAY
FATHER’S	DAY
NEW	YEAR’S
MEMORIAL	DAY
HALLOWEEN
INDEPENDENCE
DAY
HOLIDAY
CELEBRATION
	
If	you’re	gathered	around	a	table	with	some	Deaf	folks	and	you	want
to	propose	a	toast,	knock	on	the	table	to	create	a	vibration.	You	will	then
have	the	floor.
Teaching	the	Tots
Raising	a	brood	is	quite	a	responsibility.	Nothing	is	more	impressive	than
teaching	your	children	a	second	language	like	ASL.	You	can	use	the	signs	in
Table	5-5
	
every	day	around	the	house.	As	you’re	hanging	out	with	your	Deaf
chums,	see	which	signs	they	use	with	their	children	and	take	note.	These
signs	have	to	do	with	everyday	life	of	the	family,	whether	Deaf	or	hearing.
TABLE	5-5
	
Signs	for	Children	and	Family
English
Sign
English
SignSLEEP
DREAM
REST
PRAY
LAUGH
VACATION
SCHOOL
COLLEGE
BEDTIME
CHORES
ACTIVITY
BABY
CHILD
HOMEWORK
Keeping	Track	of	Your	Subjects	in
Space
At	home	or	out	and	about,	you	often	talk	about	people	who	aren’t	right	there
with	you.	For	instance,	at	work,	you	may	discuss	with	one	of	your	co-workers
how	much	you	like	your	boss.	When	using	Sign,	you	don’t	have	to	be	able	to
see	someone	(or	something)	to	be	able	to	talk	about	him,	her,	or	it.	(That’s	agood	thing,	too.	How	else	could	you	plan	a	surprise	party	for	your	spouse?)	
All	you	have	to	do	to	discuss	someone	who	isn’t	physically	present	is
assign	that	person	a	point	in	the	space	near	your	passive	hand.	You	use	the
same	sign	for	
he,	she,
	
and	
it
	
—	your	index	finger	extended	in	a	pointing
gesture	(see	
Chapter	1
	
).	If	the	he,	she,	or	it	is	nearby,	you	point	your	index
finger	at	the	person	or	thing,	but	if	the	person	or	thing	isn’t	in	your	general
vicinity,	you	select	a	specific	place	in	the	space	in	front	of	you	to	sort	of	stand
in	for	the	person	or	thing.	In	ASL,	this	sign	isn’t	gender-specific.	You	point
to	the	same	space	every	time	you	refer	to	the	absent	one.	So	if	you	want	to
sign	about	Buddy,	fingerspell	his	name	and	point	to	your	passive	hand	area.Part	2
Refining	Your	ASLIN	THIS	PART	…
Riding	the	wave	of	ASL,	learn	how	to	put	together	carefully	thought-out
sentences.
Leaving	home,	you	are	ready	to	ask	directions	and	find	your	way	in	the
world.
Heading	out	to	the	market	and	clothing	store,	sign	what	you	see	and	ask	for
what	you	want.
Wandering	the	outdoors	and	taking	part	in	sports,	you	can	apply	your	signing
to	all	kinds	of	fun	activities.
Show	off	your	signing	at	work,	while	travelling	abroad,	and	while	discussing
health	and	medical	issues.Chapter	6
Asking	Questions	and	Making	Small
Talk
IN	THIS	CHAPTER
Introducing	yourself	in	a	conversation
	
Using	key	question	words	to
convey	and	elicit	information
	
Knowing	the	signs	for	family
relationships,	locations,	and	occupations
	
Adding	pronouns	and
possessives	to	your	signing	repertoire
Hearing	people	get	to	know	one	another	by	asking	questions	and	making
small	talk.	Deaf	people	are	no	different.	You	begin	with	the	basics	and	build
from	there.	This	chapter	gets	you	started	conversing	with	your	family	and
friends	in	American	Sign	Language	by	giving	you	the	signs	for	various
information-seeking	questions.	Then	we	cover	signs	for	family	relationships
and	signs	to	help	you	talk	about	where	you	live	and	work.	Finally,	we	show
you	the	signs	for	pronouns,	including	possessives.
Signing	Key	Questions:	Six	Ws,	One	H
When	you	want	to	sign	a	question,	you	simply	put	the	question	word	at	the
end	of	the	sentence	—	words	such	as	
who,	what,	when,	where,	which,	why,
and	
how.
	
In	this	section,	we	explain	these	key	signs	and	then	show	you	how
to	ask	questions.	As	a	rule,	after	you	sign	your	question,	you	repeatedly	sign
the	manual	question	mark,	which	is	shown	here:
Question	mark	(end	of	sentence)	
Throughout	this	book,	the	letter	
Q
	
follows	all	ASL	examples	and
dialogues	that	are	questions.	Use	the	end-of-sentence	manual	question
mark	when	you	see	the	letter	Q	in	this	book.
You	also	have	the	option	of	placing	the	question	mark	at	the	beginning	of	the
sentence:
Question	mark	(beginning	of	sentence)
	
As	you	sign	the	question	word,	lean	forward	a	little,	look	inquisitive,
scrunch	your	eyebrows	together,	and	tilt	your	head	to	one	side.
Your	dominant	hand	—	the	one	that	you	write	with	—	does	the	action.
	
Always	maintain	eye	contact.	That	way,	you	and	the	other	person	can
make	sure	that	you	understand	each	other.
You	sign	the	following	inquiry	words	at	the	beginning	or	at	the	end	of	a
sentence:Who?
	
With	your	dominant	hand,	place	your	thumb	on	your	chin	and	let	your
index	finger	wiggle	from	the	joint.	The	other	three	fingers	curl	under.
What?
	
Put	your	hands	outward	in	front	of	you,	with	elbows	bent	and	palms	up.
Shake	your	hands	back	and	forth	towards	each	other.
Where?
	
Hold	up	the	index	finger	of	your	dominant	hand	as	if	you’re	indicating
“number	one”	and	shake	it	side	to	side.
When?
	
Put	both	of	your	index	fingers	together	at	a	90-degree	angle	at	the	tips.
Your	dominant	index	finger	then	makes	a	full	circle	around	the	passive	index
finger	and	returns	to	the	starting	position.Which?
	
Make	both	hands	into	fists	with	your	thumbs	pointing	up;	alternate	each
fist	in	an	up-and-down	movement.
Why?
	
With	your	dominant	hand,	palm	facing	up,	bend	and	wiggle	the	middle
finger.	Make	this	sign	close	to	your	temple.
How?
	
With	your	fingers	pointing	downward	and	the	backs	of	your	fingers	and
knuckles	touching,	roll	your	hands	inward	to	your	chest	and	up	so	that	the	pinky
sides	of	your	hands	are	touching.
Check	out	the	following	examples	of	short	questions:	
English:
	
Who	is	going?
Sign:
	
GOING	—	WHO	Q
English:
	
What	do	you	mean?
Sign:
	
MEAN	—	WHAT	Q	(the	word	“you”	is	implied	because	you’re	talking
to	that	person	already)
Signin’	the	Sign
	
Virginia	and	Mark	are	roommates.	It’s	Saturday	morning,	and	they’re	drinking	coffee	and
signing	about	what	they	have	planned	for	the	day.
Mark:
Are	you	working	today?
Sign:
TODAY	—	WORKING	YOU	Q
Virginia:
Yes,	for	two	hours.
Sign:
YES	—	TWO	HOURS	—	SHORT	(this	signed	answer	can	be	translated	to	mean,	“I	am	only	working
briefly”)Mark:
I’m	going	to	the	movies.
Sign:
MOVIES	—	GO	ME
Virginia:
May	I	join	you?
Sign:
YOU	—	ME	Q
Mark:
Of	course.
Sign:
OF	COURSE
Discussing	Family,	Friends,	and	More
This	section	helps	you	confidently	share	information	about	yourself	and	your
family.	Understanding	another	person’s	signs	is	one	thing,	but	responding	to
them	is	another.	You	already	know	all	the	ins	and	outs	of	who	your	relatives
are	and	where	you	live	and	work,	so	here’s	where	you	find	the	most
commonly	used	signs	to	convey	that	information.
Family	and	friends
Describing	your	family	is	one	way	to	tell	someone	about	yourself.	Using	the
common	signs	in	
Table	6-1
	
can	make	your	eccentric	family	seem	almost
normal.
TABLE	6-1
	
Family	Members
English
Sign
English
SignFATHER
MOTHER
SON
DAUGHTER
BROTHER
SISTER
AUNT
UNCLE
MALE	COUSIN
FEMALE	COUSIN
FAMILY
CHILDREN
	
To	sign	a	male	cousin	or	male	nephew	by	your	temple,	form	a
manual	
C
	
by	your	temple	and	shake	it	or	an	
N
	
and	twist	it.	The	same	can
be	done	by	the	jaw	to	indicate	a	female	cousin	or	niece.	Your	hand
should	never	touch	your	head.
Signs	for	some	other	members	of	your	family,	such	as	grandchildren	and	in-
laws,	are	a	bit	trickier.	To	talk	about	your	
grandchildren,
	
fingerspell	G-R-A-
N-D	and	then	sign	children.For	
in-laws,
	
sign	the	person	and	then	sign	
law.
To	sign	
stepbrother,	stepsister,	stepfather,
	
or	
stepmother,
	
sign	the	letter
“L,”	thumb	pointing	upward	and	index	finger	pointing	forward,	and	shake	the
hand	subtly.
Sign	a	
half	sibling
	
by	expressing	the	manual	½	and	then	signing	
brother
	
or
sister.
Take	a	look	at	these	examples:
English:
	
Is	she	your	sister?
Sign:
	
(point)	HER—	SISTER	—	YOURS	Q
English:
	
No,	my	sister-in-law.
Sign:
	
NO	—	SISTER	LAW	—	MINEEnglish:
	
He	is	my	half	brother.
Sign:
	
MY	1-2	(as	in	½)	BROTHER	—	HIM	(point)
	
To	show	“½”	the	palm	must	be	facing	the	signer,	and	the	1	then
moves	in	a	downward	motion	(toward	the	ground)	as	you	pop	out	your
middle	finger	to	join	your	already	raised	index	finger	making	the	1	a	2
and,	therefore,	showing	the	over-under	aspect	of	½.
To	sign	a	school	friend	or	work	colleague,	simply	sign	the	word	and	then	sign
friend.
	
You	may	signify	a	close	friend	by	signing	
friend
	
with	more	intensity.
You	can	also	indicate	that	close	friends	are	
like	two	peas	in	a	pod
	
by	signing
crossed	fingers	and	pursing	your	lips;	this	sign	looks	the	same	as	when	you
cross	your	fingers	to	mean	“good	luck”	or	“I	hope	so.”
Relating	where	you	live	and	workRelating	where	you	live	and	work
Giving	others	information	about	your	workplace	and	home	is	easy	—	the
information	is	already	in	your	memory.	Signing	this	info	to	others	is	a	snap,
but	be	careful	because	many	other	eyes	can	see	what	you	sign.
Giving	addresses	and	phone	numbers
Exchanging	addresses	and	phone	numbers	is	a	great	way	to	make	friends	with
other	signers.	Asking	someone	to	repeat	the	information	is	okay;	everyone
does	it	in	both	English	and	Sign.	You	fingerspell	most	of	this	information,
although	the	directional	words	“north,”	“south,”	“east,”	and	“west”	do	have
signs	(see	
Chapter	7
	
).
Here	are	some	common	abbreviations:
Avenue:
	
A-V-E
Circle:
	
C-I-R
Drive:
	
D-R
Street:
	
S-T
Apartment:
	
A-P-T
Way:
	
W-Y
You	sign	street	addresses	by	fingerspelling	the	street	name	and	then	signing
the	house	number,	keeping	your	palm	facing	the	addressee.	Sign	the	city’s
name	next,	but	only	when	you’re	sure	that	the	addressee	understands	the	sign.
Prominent	cities	may	have	name	signs	(refer	to	
Chapter	3
	
for	some
examples).	For	less	prominent	cities,	fingerspell	the	name.	Deaf	people	will
show	you	a	local	sign	if	it	exists.	Often,	you	sign	cities	that	have	two-word
names	by	using	the	first	letter	of	each	word.	As	a	general	rule,	sign	cities	the
way	the	Deaf	do.	As	they	say,	when	in	Rome…	.
You	sign	zip	codes	with	your	palm	facing	outward.	Sign	all	five	numbers	in
succession.
When	you	sign	phone	numbers,	all	numbers	face	the	addressee	—	outward.	If
you’re	not	sure	that	the	information	you’re	giving	is	clear,	sign	an	area	code
by	making	parentheses	with	both	index	fingers	and	then	sign	the	numbers.
Alternatively,	just	sign	L-D	(for	long	distance)	before	you	give	the	number.
Signing	the	suffix	part	of	phone	numbers	doesn’t	follow	any	set	rule.	Some
people	fingerspell	all	four	numbers	in	succession,	and	others	break	up	the
phone	number	suffix	into	two	sets	of	two	numbers.	For	instance,	if	the	lastphone	number	suffix	into	two	sets	of	two	numbers.	For	instance,	if	the	last
four	numbers	of	a	phone	number	are	1212,	you	can	sign	them	as	1,	2,	1,	2	or
12,	12.	You	don’t	need	to	worry	about	putting	a	hyphen	between	the	numbers
like	you	would	if	you	were	writing	the	number	down.
The	signs	in	
Table	6-2
	
may	help	you,	too.
TABLE	6-2
	
Signs	about	Where	You	Live
English
Sign
English
Sign
DOWNTOWN
COUNTRY
CITY
TOWN
STREET
PHONE
LONG	DISTANCE/L-D
ADDRESS
Signin’	the	Sign
	
Donna	is	moving	to	Chicago.	Mike	is	hoping	that	the	two	of	them	can	stay	in	touch;	Donna
feels	the	same	way.	Mike	wants	to	get	her	new	address	so	that	he	can	write	to	her.
Mike:
Where	are	you	moving?
Sign:
MOVING	YOU	—	WHERE	Q
Donna:
Chicago.	Will	you	write?
Sign:
CHICAGO	—	LETTER	—	WRITE	—	ME	—	YOU	QMike:
Yes,	what’s	your	address?
Sign:
YES	—	ADDRESS	YOURS	—	WHAT	Q
Donna:
171	Anywhere	Lane,	98765.
Sign:
1-7-1	A-N-Y-W-H-E-R-E	L-A-N-E	9-8-7-6-5
Mike:
Thanks.	Phone	me	when	you	arrive.Sign:
THANKS	—	ARRIVE	YOU	—	PHONE	ME
Jabbering	about	your	job
When	you	want	to	tell	someone	where	you	work,	you	usually	do	it	by
fingerspelling.	If	the	name	of	your	company	is	an	acronym,	you	fingerspell
that	as	well.	Few	places	have	name	signs	that	are	understood	by	everyone.
However,	when	sharing	info	about	your	profession,	be	it	your	job	title	or
what	your	job	entails,	you	can	usually	use	signs.	
Table	6-3
	
lists	just	a	few	of
the	many	job	signs	used	today.
TABLE	6-3
	
Job	Signs
English
Sign
English
SignBOSS
COOK
INTERPRETER
MANAGER
DOCTOR
ACCOUNTANT
POLICE
TEACHER
PRESIDENT
TREASURER
SECRETARY
VICE	PRESIDENT
MECHANIC
SALESPERSON
ASSISTANT
LAWYER
SERVER
PHARMACIST
All	vice	presidents	are	signed	V-P	by	the	side	of	the	head,	regardless	of
whether	you’re	talkng	about	the	vice	president	of	the	United	States	or	the	vicewhether	you’re	talkng	about	the	vice	president	of	the	United	States	or	the	vice
president	of	the	local	PTA	chapter.
Signin’	the	Sign
	
Juanita	and	Kim	are	seated	next	to	each	other	at	a	dinner	party	hosted	by	Tom,	a	mutual
friend.	They	strike	up	a	casual	conversation.
Kim:
Hi,	I’m	Kim,	Tom’s	accountant.
Sign:
HI	—	K-I-M	ME	—	ACCOUNTANT	FOR	T-O-M
Juanita:
I’m	Juanita.	Nice	to	meet	you.
Sign:
J-U-A-N-I-T-A	ME	—	NICE	MEET	YOU
Do	you	work	at	Bailey	&	Sons?Kim:
Do	you	work	at	Bailey	&	Sons?
Sign:
B-A-I-L-E-Y	S-O-N-S	—	YOU	WORK	Q
Juanita:
Yes,	I’m	vice	president	of	marketing.
Sign:
YES	—	MARKETING	—	V-P	—	ME
Kim:
What	an	interesting	job.
Sign:
JOB	—	INTERESTING	—	TRUE
Juanita:
I	sure	meet	a	lot	of	different	people.
Sign:
DIFFERENT	—	PEOPLE	—	MEET	MEUsing	Possessives	and	Pronouns	When
Chatting
In	the	course	of	getting	to	know	someone,	or	having	a	mutual	acquaintance,
when	asking	each	other	questions,	you’ll	find	that	using	pronouns	is	probably
easiest.	You	use	pronouns	in	Sign	the	same	way	that	you	do	in	English;	you
need	to	refer	to	a	noun	before	you	use	a	pronoun.	Of	course,	if	you’re	using	a
pronoun	to	indicate	someone	or	something	nearby,	you	can	point	to	that
person	or	thing	as	you	sign.
You	may	also	use	possessives	during	your	conversation.	Show	possession	by
indicating	whom	you’re	talking	about	or	what’s	being	possessed	and	then
showing	an	open	palm	facing	the	person.	You	can	also	use	proper	nouns	(a
person’s	name)	to	discuss	possessives.	Fingerspell	the	name	of	the	person,
point	to	the	item	you’re	talking	about,	and	sign	a	question	mark.	For	example,
suppose	that	you’re	signing	with	someone	and	you	want	to	know	if	the	coat
on	the	hook	belongs	to	Tony.	Fingerspell	T-O-N-Y,	point	to	the	coat,	and
sign	a	question	mark.
If	you’re	signing	
with
	
Tony,	point	to	the	object	or	fingerspell	it	if	it’s	not	in
view,	look	at	Tony,	sign	toward	him	with	an	open	palm,	and	then	make	a
question	mark.	You’ve	now	asked	him,	“Is	that	yours?”	Remember	to	keep
your	eyebrows	up	and	wear	an	inquisitive	look.
Personal	pronouns	and	possessivesPersonal	pronouns	and	possessives
Table	6-4
	
lists	pronouns	that	refer	to	people	and	also	gives	you	the	signs	for
the	possessive	pronouns.
TABLE	6-4
	
Personal	and	Possessive	Pronouns
Pronoun
Sign
Possessive
Sign
I,	ME
MY,	MINE
HE
HIS
SHE
HERS
YOU
(singular)
YOUR,	YOURS
(singular)
YOU	(plural)
YOUR,	YOURS	(plural)
WE,	US
OUR,	OURS
THEY,	THEM
THEIR,	THEIRS
IT
ITS
As	you	can	see,	you	use	some	signs	for	more	than	one	pronoun.	Simple
sentences	can	follow	English	word	order.	Put	the	possessive	pronoun	sign
before	or	after	the	person	or	thing	you’re	signing;	the	order	doesn’t	matter.
For	example:	
English:
	
My	dog.
Sign:
	
DOG	MINE	or	MY	DOGDemonstrative	pronouns
As	a	group,	four	little	pronouns	—	
this,	that,	these,
	
and	
those
	
—	get	a	big
name,	
demonstrative	pronouns.
	
But	you	don’t	really	need	to	know	the	names,
just	the	signs,	which	are	in	
Table	6-5
	
.
TABLE	6-5
	
Demonstrative	Pronouns
Pronoun
Sign
Plural
Sign
THIS
THESE
THAT
THOSE
Sign	the	pronoun	
that
	
by	pointing	to	your	subject	with	your	dominant	hand	in
the	
Y
	
shape	and	bent	at	the	wrist.	Sign	
this,	these,
	
and	
those
	
by	pointing	to
the	subject	or	subjects.
Sign	singular	possessives	by	holding	your	hand,	palm	outward,	toward	the
person	to	whom	you’re	referring.	Sign	plural	possessives	the	same	way,	but
also	move	your	hand	from	side	to	side	in	front	of	each	person	in	a	sort	of
sweeping	motion.The	following	sentences	give	you	some	practice	with	pronouns	and
possessives:	
English:
	
He	is	rich.
Sign:
	
RICH	HIM
English:
	
He	has	money.
Sign:
	
MONEY	HIS
English:
	
She	is	wise.
Sign:
	
WISE	HER
English:
	
She	has	wisdom.
Sign:
	
WISDOM	HERSEnglish:
	
They	have	gold.
Sign:
	
GOLD	HAVE	THEM
English:
	
The	gold	is	theirs.
Sign:
	
GOLD	THEIRS
Chapter	7
Asking	for	Directions
IN	THIS	CHAPTER
Giving	and	getting	directions	in	Sign
	
Making	use	of	natural	and	urban
landmarks	in	your	directions
	
Using	signs	for	transportation
	
Adding
conjunctions	to	your	directions
Getting	where	you	need	to	go	can	happen	as	quickly	as	a	wave	of	your	hand.
You	can	go	a	long	way	by	using	the	signs	for	directions	and	transportation
that	are	included	in	this	chapter.
Finding	Your	Way
	
When	giving	or	getting	directions	in	American	Sign	Language,	you
need	to	keep	two	things	in	mind.	Get	these	strategies	down	and	you	can
tell	people	exactly	where	to	go	and	how	to	get	there:
Try	to	start	with	a	point	of	reference	that’s	familiar	to	both	of	you,	such	as	a
store,	restaurant,	or	bridge,	and	then	give	the	directions.
Go	from	big	to	small;	from	general	to	specific.
For	example,	in	the	United	States,	you	go	from	state	to	city	to
neighborhood	to	street	to	house	number.
Table	7-1
	
groups	signs	for	compass	points	and	other	directional	signals.
Notice	that	the	handshapes	you	use	for	the	
compass	points
	
and	for	
left
	
and
right
	
are	the	first	letters	of	the	words.
TABLE	7-1
	
Compass	Points
English
Sign
English
SignNORTH
SOUTH
EAST
WEST
LEFT
RIGHT
The	following	examples	show	you	how	to	sign	directions	in	perfect	order.
English:
	
My	house	is	west	of	the	store.
Sign:
	
STORE	—	MY	HOUSE	—	WEST
English:
	
Turn	right	twice.
Sign:
	
RIGHT	—	RIGHTNotice	that	you	don’t	sign	the	word	
twice;
	
you	simply	sign	
right
	
twice.	Make
sure	you	shift	your	body	ever	so	slightly	as	you	start	to	sign	
right
	
the	second
time.
To	give	directions,	you	often	establish	relationships.	Don’t	worry;	you	don’t
have	to	commit	for	very	long.	
Table	7-2
	
lists	the	signs	for	the	situational
relationships	you	use	to	give	directions	as	well	as	some	landmarks	and
distances	that	you	might	use.
TABLE	7-2
	
Directional	Relationship	Signs
English
Sign
English
Sign
AFTER
BACK
BEFORE
BEHIND
BESIDE
CROSS	STREET/
INTERSECTION
FORWARD
IN	FRONT	OF
STRAIGHT
TURN
NEAR
FAR
	
To	sign	
straight,
	
use	the	B	manual	handshape	and	then	move	it
straight	out	in	front	of	you,	bending	your	wrist.
The	sign	for	
straight
	
is	also	one	sign	for	
sober
	
—	the	sentence’s	context	tells
you	which	word	is	being	signed.	Also,	you	use	this	same	B	handshape	to	sign
the	direction	to	turn	left	or	right	onto	a	street.	Some	people	use	the	sign	for
left
	
or	
right
	
before	this	B	sign.	In	many	cases,	it	adds	clarification.
The	following	sentences	put	these	signs	in	action.English:
	
Go	straight;	don’t	turn.
Sign:
	
STRAIGHT	—	TURN	—	DON’T
English:
	
The	cross	street	is	Maple	Drive.
Sign:
	
CROSS	STREET	WHAT	—	M-A-P-L-E	D-R
Signin’	the	Sign
	
Buddy	is	going	to	the	mall.	Although	he	knows	the	town	of	Pueblo,	he	isn’t	sure	how	to	get
to	the	mall	from	where	he’s	located.	He	sees	Linda;	she	knows	the	town	well.	Notice	how	she	helps	him
while	using	a	familiar	reference	point.
Buddy:
How	do	I	get	to	the	mall?
Sign:
M-A-L-L	ARRIVE	—	HOW	QLinda:
Do	you	know	where	the	museum	is?
Sign:
MUSEUM	WHERE	—	KNOW	YOU	Q
Buddy:
From	this	cross	street	I	go	north.
Sign:
HERE	CROSS	STREET	—	NORTH	GO	ME
Linda:
Yes,	but	turn	east	after	two	miles.Sign:
YES	—	BUT	TWO	M-I-L-E-S	FINISH	—	GO	EAST
Looking	to	Natural	Landmarks
Most	people	find	landmarks	to	be	helpful	when	giving	or	receiving
directions.	After	all,	telling	someone	to	turn	right	at	the	bottom	of	the	hill	is
much	easier	than	telling	someone	to	turn	right	after	traveling	1.3	miles.	The
signs	for	natural	landmarks	in	
Table	7-3
	
are	sure	to	help	you.
TABLE	7-3
	
Natural	Landmarks
English
Sign
English
Sign
FIELD
HILL
LAKE
MOUNTAIN
RIVER
TREE
WATERFALL
ROCK/STONE
	
You	may	see	some	people	fingerspell	
field;
	
whether	you	fingerspell	it
or	sign	it,	the	goal	is	to	be	as	clear	as	possible.
Take	a	look	at	the	following	sentences	to	see	how	you	can	use	these	landmark
signs	when	giving	directions.
English:
	
When	you	get	to	the	lake,	turn	right.
Sign:
	
LAKE	ARRIVE	—	RIGHT	TURN
	
In	ASL,	you	sign	
get	to
	
as	
arrive.
English:
	
At	the	base	of	the	mountain	is	a	small	store.
Sign:
	
MOUNTAIN	BASE	—	SMALL	STORE	—	THERESearching	the	Streets
Going	through	town	can	be	overwhelming	unless	you	know	how	to	get	where
you’re	going.	
Table	7-4
	
demonstrates	the	landmarks	you	can	use	to	direct
someone	in	the	city.
TABLE	7-4
	
Urban	Landmarks
English
Sign
English
Sign
BRIDGE
BUILDING
GAS	STATION
HIGHWAY
ROAD/STREET
STOPLIGHT
STOP	SIGN
MPH
	
You	sign	
building
	
with	both	hands	in	the	H	handshape,	but	don’t
tuck	in	your	thumbs	—	leave	them	out.	Place	one	hand	on	top	of	the
other	four	times;	then,	with	B	handshapes,	palms	facing	each	other,	go
straight	up	—	go	high	for	a	skyscraper.
You	sign	a	
stop	sign
	
by	making	the	sign	for	
stop
	
and	then	making	a	square-
cut	line	with	your	index	finger.	It	would	be	great	to	make	the	octagon	shape,
but	who	can?
You’ve	no	doubt	given	directions	similar	to	the	ones	in	the	following
examples.	Now,	see	how	to	do	it	in	Sign.
English:
	
Pass	the	park	and	go	three	miles	south.
Sign:
	
P-A-R-K	PASS	—	SOUTH	THREE	M-I-L-E-S	GO
English:
	
At	the	stop	sign,	go	right.
Sign:
	
STOP	SIGN	ARRIVE	—	RIGHTEnglish:
	
Go	across	the	bridge.
Sign:
	
BRIDGE	—	GO	OVER
English:
	
The	gas	station	is	near	the	highway.
Sign:
	
HIGHWAY	—	GAS	STATION	—	NEAR
Transporting	YourselfTransporting	Yourself
Whether	you	just	need	to	get	around	town	or	you	decide	to	see	the	world,
your	travel	requires	wheels.	This	section	gives	you	just	that.	Consider	the
signs	in	
Table	7-5
	
for	your	free-wheeling	adventures.
TABLE	7-5
	
Wheels
English
Sign
English
Sign
BICYCLE
CAR
MOTORCYCLE
PLANE
SUBWAY
TRAIN
	
Bus
	
is	fingerspelled	B-S	—	leave	out	the	“u.”	To	sign	
driving	a	bus,
mimic	a	truck-size	steering	wheel	at	the	lower	chest	level,	wrap	your
hands	around	the	imaginary	wheel,	and	steer	back	and	forth.	This	motion
also	works	for	trucks,	RVs	(after	you	fingerspell	R-V),	or	any	large
vehicle.	Just	fingerspell	the	big	rig	first.
Get	the	wheels	in	motion,	so	to	speak,	by	using	these	automotive	signs.
English:
	
The	car	was	in	an	accident.Sign:
	
FINISH—CAR—ACCIDENT—HAVE
	
You	sign	
accident
	
by	making	a	5	handshape,	palms	facing	you,
fingertips	facing	each	other.	Crash	them	together,	ending	in	an	S
handshape.
English:
	
If	I	miss	the	train,	I’ll	fly.
Sign:
	
TRAIN	MISS	—	FLY	ME	—	WILL
English:
	
You	need	a	motorcycle	helmet.
Sign:
	
MOTORCYCLE	HELMET	—	NEED	YOUDirecting	Your	Sentences	with
Conjunctions
As	you	probably	remember	from	grammar	classes	of	long	ago,	
conjunctions
join	thoughts	or	phrases.	One	of	the	most	common	conjunctions	is	
but,
	
so	we
explain	that	one	first.
To	sign	
but,
	
put	your	dominant	hand	on	the	dominant	side	of	your	head	and
flick	your	index	finger	twice,	ending	with	your	index	finger	up.
Check	out	the	following	example.
English:
	
Go	to	the	party	but	be	home	at	midnight.
Sign:
	
PARTY	GO	—	BUT	HOME	MIDNIGHT	—	MUST	YOUThe	either/or	and	neither/nor	conjunctions	are	called	
correlative	conjunctions,
and	you	use	your	hands	and	head	to	convey	these	signs.
	
When	signing	
either	…	or
	
and	
neither	…	nor,
	
keep	in	mind	that	you
use	these	conjunctions	to	answer	these	types	of	questions,	not	to	ask
them.	So	although	you	don’t	use	the	facial	expressions	you	use	to	ask
questions,	you	keep	your	head	still	or	nod	“yes”	for	affirmation	when
you	sign	
either,
	
and	you	shake	your	head	from	side	to	side	while	signing
neither.
English:
	
Do	you	want	apples	or	oranges?Sign:
	
APPLES	ORANGES	—	WANT	YOU	—	WHICH
English	response:
	
Either	apples	or	oranges	would	be	fine.
Sign	response:
	
EITHER	FINE
English:
	
Do	you	want	chicken	or	steak?
Sign:
	
CHICKEN	STEAK	—	WANT	YOU	—	WHICHEnglish	response:
	
I	want	neither	chicken	nor	steak.
Sign	response:
	
NEITHER
Chapter	8
Dining	and	Going	to	the	Market
IN	THIS	CHAPTER
Mastering	the	signs	for	meals
	
Using	signs	in	restaurants
	
Showcasing
signs	while	shopping
When	dining	out	with	Deaf	people,	who	love	to	wine	and	dine	like	anyone
else,	you	may	want	to	ask	them	what’s	good	on	the	menu,	but	perhaps	you
don’t	know	how.	This	chapter	covers	signing	three	square	meals,	dining	out
and	ordering	drinks,	and	finding	sales	and	specials	in	the	grocery	store.
Eating	Three	Square	Meals	a	Day
When	you’re	lucky	enough	to	get	an	invitation	to	join	other	signers	for
brunch,	take	along	these	signs	to	get	you	through	the	event.	In	this	part,	we
will	see	signs	for	breakfast,	lunch,	and	dinner,	plus	everything	you’ll	see	on
the	table	—	except	your	elbows.	Before	you	dive	into	a	dish	of	delights	for
any	meal,	check	out	
Table	8-1
	
for	a	list	of	some	necessary	tools.
TABLE	8-1
	
Utensils	and	Dishes
English
Sign
English
Sign
BOWL
CUP
FORK
GLASS	(drinking)
KNIFE
NAPKIN
PLATE
SPOON
	
These	next	sentences	help	you	see	American	Sign	Language	in
action.	Here’s	how	to	sign	the	words	for	what	you’ll	need	at	the	table.	Agood	host	knows	not	only	when	to	use	the	salad	fork	but	also	how	to
sign	it.	To	sign	
place	setting,
	
sign	
fork,	knife,
	
and	
spoon.
	
A	great	way
to	remember	how	to	make	the	signs	for	tableware	is	pretty	simple:	what
you	do	with	the	objects	relates	to	the	signs.	For	example,	you	sign
napkin
	
with	a	wiping	motion	on	the	mouth;	you	sign	
spoon
	
using	a
scooping	motion;	you	sign	
fork
	
with	a	stabbing	motion;	and	you	sign
knife
	
using	a	cutting	motion.
English:
	
I	need	another	place	setting,	please.
Sign:
	
PLEASE	—	FORK	—	KNIFE	—	SPOON	—	NEED	ME
English:
	
The	plate	and	glass	are	broken.
Sign:
	
PLATE	—	GLASS	—	BROKEN
English:
	
I	need	three	bowls.
Sign:
	
THREE	BOWLS	—	NEED	MEEnglish:
	
The	napkin	is	dirty.
Sign:
	
NAPKIN	—	DIRTY
Table	8-2
	
shows	you	how	to	sign	meal-related	words.
TABLE	8-2
	
Mealtime
English
Sign
BREAKFAST
LUNCH
DINNER
FOOD
EAT
HUNGRY
FULL
	
If	you	want	to	show	
gorging,
	
sign	
food
	
with	both	hands	alternately
putting	food	in	your	mouth	while	your	cheeks	are	puffed	out	or	your
mouth	is	wide	open.	The	faster	you	sign,	the	more	you	gorge.	To	sign
starving,
	
just	sign	
hungry
	
faster,	open	your	mouth	a	little,	and	look
hungry.	Don’t	forget	your	facial	expression.	It’ll	really	show	just	how
full	or	hungry	you	are!	For	example,	when	you	sign	
full,
	
use	puffed
cheeks.
Having	breakfast
Because	breakfast	is	the	most	important	meal	of	the	day,	the	signs	for
breakfast	foods	are	the	most	important	ones	of	the	day.	The	signs	in	
Table	8-3
certainly	help	at	the	breakfast	table.
TABLE	8-3
	
Breakfast	Foods
English
Sign
English
Sign
BACON
CEREAL
EGG
SAUSAGE
TOAST
FRENCH	TOAST
Even	if	you’re	still	half	asleep,	you	won’t	have	any	problems	figuring	out
most	of	these	signs.	The	sign	for	
bacon
	
mimics	the	waviness	of	a	fried	strip;
toast
	
lets	you	know	that	the	bread	is	browned	on	both	sides;	
cereal
	
is	the
crunchy	stuff	you	chew.	Use	the	common	abbreviations	for	
orange	juice
	
and
sign	the	letters	
O
	
and	
J
	
to	convey	this	popular	breakfast	beverage.	Get	going
on	practicing	your	early-morning	skills	with	the	following	examples:
English:
	
I	want	eggs,	not	cereal.
Sign:
	
EGGS	WANT	—	CEREAL	NOT	—	MEEnglish:
	
The	orange	juice	is	cold.
Sign:
	
COLD	O-J
English:
	
I’ll	have	sausage	and	eggs.
Sign:
	
SAUSAGE	—	EGGS	—	HAVE	ME
Munching	on	lunch
Doing	lunch	with	friends	is	at	your	fingertips.	The	set	of	signs	in	
Table	8-4
can	hold	you	through	the	afternoon.	Just	don’t	get	too	excited	about	signing
these	items	or	you	may	end	up	eating	them	all	in	one	sitting!
TABLE	8-4
	
Lunch	Items
English
Sign
English
Sign
BURGER
CHEESE
SODA
FRENCH	FRIES
PIZZA
SALAD
SANDWICH
FRUIT
To	order	a	hamburger,	you	imitate	the	motions	of	making	a	patty,	but	for
other	lunch	signs,	you	use	the	manual	alphabet.	For	example,	you	sign
French	fries
	
by	repeating	the	letter	
F
	
from	one	side	to	the	other	side	as	if	you
are	dipping	them,	and	you	sign	
pizza
	
by	bending	your	index	and	middle
fingers	and	then	making	a	manual	
Z.
	
(Refer	to	
Chapter	1
	
to	see	how	to	sign
the	letters	of	the	manual	alphabet.)	Follow	these	examples:	
English:
	
I’m
hungry,	and	it’s	time	for	lunch.
Sign:
	
NOW	TIME	—	NOON	FOOD	—	HUNGRY	ME
English:
	
I	want	a	cheeseburger	and	fries.Sign:
	
CHEESEBURGER	—	FRIES	—	WANT	—	ME
English:
	
The	soda	is	cold.
Sign:
	
SODA	—	COLD
English:
	
I	want	a	sandwich	and	salad	for	lunch.
Sign:
	
NOON	FOOD	—	SANDWICH	—	SALAD	—	WANT	MESignin’	the	Sign
	
Two	co-workers	are	going	to	lunch	and	are	discussing	what	they’re	in	the	mood	to	eat.
Here’s	what	they	each	decide.
Dee:
I’m	hungry;	I	want	a	hamburger,	French	fries,	and	a	soda.
Sign:
HUNGRY	ME	—	HAMBURGER	FRENCH	FRIES	SODA	—	WANT	METed:
I	want	a	fish	sandwich	and	water.
Sign:
FISH	SANDWICH	—	WATER	—	WANT	ME
Dee:
They	have	chicken.
Sign:
CHICKEN	—	HAVE	THEM	(point)Enjoying	dinner
Supper	is	ready,	and	so	are	you.	Putting	the	evening	meal	into	conversation	is
a	piece	of	cake.	Follow	the	signs	in	
Table	8-5
	
and	you’ll	say	a	mouthful.	(The
signs	for	drinks	are	coming	up	in	the	“
Don’t	forget	the	drinks!
	
”	section.)
TABLE	8-5
	
Dinner	Terms
English
Sign
English
Sign
BREAD
CHICKEN
FISH
CORN
HAM
POTATO
SOUP
SPAGHETTI
STEAK
GRAVY
Fortunately,	you	sign	
chicken,	fish,
	
and	
pig
	
like	the	food	they	provide.	If	you
want	to	order	steak	or	beef,	you	can	use	the	same	sign	for	either	one.
	
Signing	how	you	want	it	cooked	is	a	breeze;	just	use	the	manual
alphabet	and	give	your	hand	a	little	shake:	M	for	medium,	but
fingerspell	M-E-D	W-E-L-L	and	W-E-L-L.	If	you	want	your	steak	rare,
fingerspell	R-A-R-E.
	
Don’t	sign	rare	with	a	shaken	
R
	
—	the	untrained	eye	could	mistake
that	motion	for	“restroom”	or	the	direction	“right.”
Here	are	some	dinner-related	sentences	to	give	you	practice:	
English:
	
Soup
and	bread	were	served.
Sign:
	
FINISH	—	SOUP	—	BREAD	—	SERVE	
Finish
	
at	the	beginning	of	a	sentence	adds	past	tense	to	the	whole
sentence.	(See	
Chapter	2
	
for	more	information	on	signing	in	past	and
future	tense.)	
English:
	
Chicken	and	spaghetti	are	on	special.
Sign:
	
SPECIAL	—	WHAT	—	CHICKEN	—	SPAGHETTI
English:
	
The	steak	is	rare.
Sign:
	
STEAK	—	R-A-R-EEnglish:
	
I’d	like	a	potato	with	my	fish.
Sign:
	
MY	FISH	—	POTATO	TOGETHER	—	WANT	ME
English:
	
I’m	full.
Sign:
	
FULL	ME
Dining	Out
Everyone	enjoys	going	out	to	restaurants	from	time	to	time.	Take	a	look	at
the	signs	in	
Table	8-6
	
,	which	you	can	use	no	matter	what	type	of	restaurant
you	go	to.	Bon	appetit!TABLE	8-6
	
Words	for	Dining	Out
English
Sign
English
Sign
ORDER
RESERVATION
RESTAURANT
SERVER/WAITER/WAITRESS
	
Deaf	people	usually	point	out	to	the	server	what	they	want	on	the
menu.	If	you’re	dining	out	with	Deaf	people,	don’t	try	to	take	control
when	ordering.	They’ve	probably	been	eating	in	restaurants	long	before
they	met	you.
Ethnic	food	around	town
Restaurant	row	is	just	down	the	street.	Many	Deaf	people	enjoy	eating	at
ethnic	establishments,	and	I	know	you’d	like	to	enjoy	both	the	food	and	the
company.	The	food	signs	in	
Table	8-7
	
are	just	the	thing	to	get	you	going	—
come	and	get	it!
TABLE	8-7
	
Ethnic	Foods
English
Sign
English
SignLASAGNA
SUSHI
TACO
TORTILLA
TOSTADA
HUNGARIAN	GOULASH
	
ASL	doesn’t	have	established	signs	for	ethnic	foods.	If	the	grub	is
popular,	you	may	see	a	variety	of	ways	to	sign	it	if	there	isn’t	already	an
established	sign	from	its	country	of	origin.	In	the	southwestern	part	of
the	United	States,	Mexican	food	is	popular,	and	Mexican	Sign	Language
for	this	ethnic	food	is	pretty	well	established	in	the	border	states.
The	following	sentences	will	work	up	an	appetite	for	any	eager	signer:
English:
	
We	will	eat	dinner	at	a	restaurant.Sign:
	
RESTAURANT	—	EVENING	FOOD	—	EAT	THERE	—	WE	WILL
English:
	
I	like	egg	rolls.
Sign:
	
EGG	R-O-L-L-S	—	LIKE	ME
English:
	
Tostadas	are	cheap.
Sign:
	
TOSTADA	—	CHEAP
English:
	
She	likes	tortillas.
Sign:
	
TORTILLAS	—	SHE	LIKES
Don’t	forget	the	drinks!
When	dining	out	or	going	for	a	night	on	the	town,	drinks	are	often	a	big	part
of	the	occasion.	
Table	8-8
	
can	help	you	when	ordering	common	beverages.
TABLE	8-8
	
Common	Beverages
English
Sign
English
Sign
BEER
COFFEE
WHISKEY/ALCOHOL
WINE
SODA/COLA
MILK
WATER
TEA
English:
	
We	need	ice.
Sign:
	
I-C-E	—	NEED	US
English:
	
The	water	is	warm.Sign:
	
WATER	—	WARM
English:
	
I	need	a	glass	for	my	beer.
Sign:
	
BEER	GLASS	—	NEED	ME
English:
	
The	coffee	is	strong.
Sign:
	
COFFEE	—	STRONG
Signin’	the	Sign
	
Belinda	and	Denni	are	out	on	the	town.	Belinda	wants	to	propose	a	toast	and	is	asking	about
drinks	when	the	waitress	approaches.Belinda:
What	would	you	like	to	drink?
Sign:
DRINK	—	WANT	WHAT	Q
Denni:
A	cold	beer.
Sign:
COLD	BEER
Belinda:
A	glass	of	red	wine.
Sign:
GLASS	RED	WINE
Attention,	Shoppers!
Grocery	shopping	made	simple	—	that’s	what	you’ll	find	when	you	do	it	in
Sign.	This	section	gives	you	a	handle	on	going	to	the	market	and	other	food-
related	stores.
Signing	specialty	stores
Everyone	at	one	time	or	another	goes	to	the	market.	You’ll	be	the	guru	of
groceries,	hands	down,	when	using	the	signs	from	
Table	8-9
	
.
TABLE	8-9
	
Types	of	Stores
English
Sign
English
Sign
BAKERY	(BREAD
STORE)
BUTCHER	(MEAT
STORE)
DISCOUNT	STORE
GROCERY	(FOOD
STORE)
English:
	
I	went	to	the	butcher’s.
Sign:
	
FINISH	—	MEAT	STORE	—	GO	MEEnglish:
	
The	bakery	smells	good.
Sign:
	
BREAD	STORE	—	SMELLS	DELICIOUS
Getting	a	good	deal
Few	things	are	more	satisfying	than	saving	money	when	you’re	shopping	for
groceries.	Signing	specials	from	the	marketplace,	like	those	in	
Table	8-10
	
,
give	you	the	upper	hand	as	you	finger	your	way	through	the	fruit.	Note	that
some	signs	mean	several	words,	as	in	“two	for	the	price	of	one.”
TABLE	8-10
	
Sale	Ad	Words
English
Sign
English
SignSAVE
SPEND/BUY
SELL
BARGAIN/CHEAP
COUPON
GIFT	CARD
English:
	
The	meat	is	on	sale	today.
Sign:
	
TODAY	—	MEAT	—	SALEEnglish:
	
You	can	buy	two	steaks	for	the	price	of	one.
Sign:
	
TWO	STEAKS	—	PAY	—	ONLY	ONE
English:
	
I	saved	money.
Sign:
	
FINISH	—	MONEY—	SAVE	ME
English:
	
You	spent	too	much.
Sign:
	
FINISH	—	SPEND	—	(you	is	implied)	TOO	MUCHChapter	9
Shopping	Made	Easy
IN	THIS	CHAPTER
Signing	various	clothes	and	colors
	
Paying	for	your	goods
	
Comparing
costs
Signing	superlatives
Signing	and	shopping	fit	together	like	hand	and	glove.	This	chapter	focuses
on	fashions,	colors,	and	seasons	in	American	Sign	Language.	We	throw	in
signs	for	money	and	comparing	prices,	too	—	at	no	cost	to	you.
Clothes	for	All	Seasons
Dapper	duds	are	all	the	rage.	These	signs	show	you	how	to	ask	for	and	get
your	garb	in	any	season	because	everyone	loves	a	well-dressed	signer.	
Table
9-1
	
talks	fabric.	Although	you	fingerspell	many	fabrics,	here	are	some	fabrics
that	you	sign.
TABLE	9-1
	
Fabrics
English
Sign
English
Sign
COTTON
FABRIC
LEATHER
ELASTIC
	
Fabric
	
signs	bear	a	strong	resemblance	to	what	they	represent.	For
example,	the	sign	for	
leather
	
is	similar	to	cowhide,	and	the	
cotton
	
sign
is	like	tearing	apart	a	cotton	ball.
These	words	are	the	basics	for	all	your	clothing	needs.	You	sign	
wear
	
the
same	way	as	
use,
	
so	don’t	worry	that	they	look	the	same.	The	sign	for	
clothes
is	the	same	as	the	sign	for	
costume
	
—	try	that	on	for	size!
WEAR
CLOTHES
The	winter	look
Changing	with	the	seasons	is	no	problem.	Winter	wear	signs	are	cool	because
they	look	like	what	they	are.	Check	them	out	in	
Table	9-2
	
.
TABLE	9-2
	
Winter	Clothing
English
Sign
English
SignBOOTS
COAT
GLOVES
HAT
HOODIE
SCARF
ASL	has	a	variety	of	signs	for	gloves	because	there	are	different	kinds	of
gloves.	Either	way,	you	want	to	mimic	putting	on	a	pair	of	gloves.	You	sign
mittens
	
by	making	an	outline	of	your	thumb	and	four	fingers	with	the	index
finger	of	your	passive	hand.	Mittens	aren’t	as	common	as	gloves,	so	if	people
don’t	understand	you,	you	can	always	rely	on	fingerspelling.	
Hat
	
and	
scarf
	
are	simple:	Sign	them	like	you’re	putting	them	on.
Men	tend	to	sign	
boots
	
by	mimicking	pulling	boots	on	their	legs.	Women
tend	to	sign	boots	on	the	arm.	(This	isn’t	a	rule,	only	an	observation.)	Try
these	sentences	on	for	size:
English:
	
Wear	your	coat.
Sign:
	
YOUR	COAT	WEAR
English:
	
The	scarf	is	white.
Sign:
	
SCARF	WHITE
English:
	
Are	these	your	gloves?
Sign:
	
GLOVES	YOURS	Q
Now,	it’s	time	to	go	undercover.	You	sign	most	underwear	signs	to	look	like
what	they	represent.	You	can	sign	
men’s	briefs
	
like	
panties
	
.	You	may	oftensee	
long	johns
	
expressed	by	signing	
long
	
and	then	fingerspelling	J-O-H-N-S.
One	way	to	sign	
T-shirt
	
is	with	the	manual	handshape	
T
	
and	then	
shirt.
	
You
fingerspell	anything	slinky	or	kinky.	Take	a	look	at	
Table	9-3
	
for
clarification.
TABLE	9-3
	
Underwear
English
Sign
English
Sign
PANTIES
BRA
UNDERWEAR
(women)
UNDERWEAR
(men)
T-SHIRT
	
	
Fall	fashion
You’ll	have	no	trouble	with	fall	fashions	when	you	know	the	basic	signs	for
cool	weather	wear	(see	
Table	9-4
	
).
TABLE	9-4
	
Cool	Clothing
English
Sign
English
Sign
BELT
DRESS
HIGH	HEELS
PANTS/SLACKS
SHIRT
SHOES
SOCKS
SWEATER
Be	cool.	Practice	these	sentences	that	feature	cool-weather	wear:	
English:
Your	dress	is	pretty.
Sign:
	
YOUR	DRESS	—	PRETTY
English:
	
Her	belt	is	leather.
Sign:
	
HER	BELT	—	LEATHER
English:
	
If	you	wear	pants,	don’t	wear	high	heels.
Sign:
	
IF	PANTS	WEAR	—	HIGH	HEELS	WEAR	NOTEnglish:
	
Where	is	my	sweater?
Sign:
	
MY	SWEATER	—	WHERE	Q
Spring	style
Dressing	for	spring	is	a	beautiful	thing.	The	signs	in	
Table	9-5
	
show	you	how
to	fit	in	all	the	fashionable	circles	when	the	weather	begins	to	warm	up.
TABLE	9-5
	
Spring	Apparel	and	Accessories
English
Sign
English
SignBLOUSE
PURSE
SKIRT
NYLONS
TIE
UMBRELLA
WALLET
BACKPACK
Spring	into	action	and	take	a	look	at	the	following	sentences:	
English:
Where’s	my	umbrella?
Sign:
	
MY	UMBRELLA	—	WHERE	Q
English:
	
I	want	that	skirt.
Sign:
	
SKIRT	—	THAT	(one)	—	WANT	ME
English:
	
Where	is	my	wallet?
Sign:
	
MY	WALLET	—	WHERE	QEnglish:
	
If	you	wear	a	blouse,	I’ll	wear	a	tie.
Sign:
	
IF	BLOUSE	YOU	WEAR	—	TIE	ME	WEAR
English:
	
Her	purse	is	nice.
Sign:
	
HER	PURSE	—NICESummer	suits
You	can	let	everyone	know	your	taste	in	summer	wear	with	just	a	few	bare-
bones	signs.	
Table	9-6
	
gives	you	the	hottest	signs	for	the	coolest	summer
clothes.
TABLE	9-6
	
Summer	Sizzlers
English
Sign
English
Sign
SHORTS
SUNDRESS
SUNGLASSES
SANDALS
	
To	sign	
sunglasses,
	
just	put	the	sign	for	
sun
	
before	
glasses.
	
For	a
two-piece	swimsuit
	
for	women,	you	sign	
bra
	
and	
panties;
	
for	a	
one-
piece	swimsuit,
	
you	sign	
one	piece.
	
You	fingerspell	
men’s	swimming
trunks,
	
or	you	can	sign	
shorts.
	
But	if	you’re	talking	Speedos,	sign	it
like	
panties.
Now	that	you	have	the	summer	basics,	try	these	sentences:	
English:
	
Where
did	you	buy	those	sunglasses?
Sign:
	
SUNGLASSES	—	BUY	YOU	—	WHERE	Q
English:
	
These	shorts	are	old.
Sign:
	
SHORTS	(point)	—	OLD
English:
	
When	will	the	T-shirt	shop	open?Sign:
	
T-SHIRT	SHOP	—	OPEN	—	WHEN	Q
Clothing	by	color
Adding	color	to	the	canvas	only	brightens	your	repertoire	of	Sign.	Time	to
bring	it	all	home.	This	section	gives	you	a	start	with	your	basic	colors.	Use
the	signs	in	
Table	9-7
	
to	mix	and	match	your	way	throughout	the	year.
TABLE	9-7
	
Common	Colors
English
Sign
English
Sign
BLACK
BLUE
BROWN
GREEN
ORANGE
PINK
PURPLE
RED
WHITE
YELLOW
Following	are	some	sentences	that	let	you	practice	your	newfound	coloring
skills:	
English:
	
Her	dress	is	blue	and	white.
Sign:
	
HER	DRESS	—	BLUE	WHITE
English:
	
His	tie	is	green.
Sign:
	
HIS	TIE	—	GREENEnglish:
	
He	wore	a	yellow	cotton	shirt.
Sign:
	
FINISH	—	HE	WEAR	SHIRT	—	YELLOW	COTTON
English:
	
Her	purse	was	black	leather.
Sign:
	
FINISH	—	HER	PURSE	—	BLACK	LEATHERSignin’	the	Sign
	
Aurora	and	David	are	going	shopping.	The	stores	have	many	sales,	and	they’re	looking	for
the	best	deals.	Follow	along	as	they	move	through	the	aisles.
Aurora:
That	blue	dress	is	pretty.
Sign:
BLUE	DRESS	—	PRETTY
David:
Those	brown	shoes	are	big.
Sign:
BROWN	SHOES	—	BIGAurora:
Do	you	like	the	black	slacks?
Sign:
BLACK	SLACKS	—	YOU	LIKE	Q
David:
I	like	the	leather	pants.
Sign:
LEATHER	PANTS	—	LIKE	ME
All	about	MoneyNow	comes	the	not-so-fun	part	—	paying	for	all	your	new	items.	But	because
you	have	to	fork	over	the	money,	the	signs	in	
Table	9-8
	
cover	the	variety	of
ways	to	pay	for	those	purchases.
TABLE	9-8
	
Payment	Options
English
Sign
English
Sign
ATM/DEBIT	CARD
CASH
CHARGE
CHECK
CREDIT	CARD
OWE
	
When	signing	
ATM/debit	card
	
or	
credit	card,
	
outline	a	card	shape
after	making	the	signs	in	
Table	9-8
	
.
Table	9-9
	
covers	other	money-related	words.
TABLE	9-9
	
Financial	WordsEnglish
Sign
English
Sign
BANK
BILLS/DOLLARS
CENTS
CHANGE
MONEY
PAY
Here	are	some	financial-transaction	sentences	for	you	to	practice	money
matters:	
English:
	
I’ll	pay	with	my	credit	card.
Sign:
	
CREDIT	(outline	card)	—	PAY	WILL	ME
English:
	
She	wrote	a	$50	check.
Sign:
	
FINISH	—	CHECK	5-0	DOLLARS	—	WRITE	HEREnglish:
	
The	bank	gave	me	an	ATM	card.
Sign:
	
A-T-M	(outline	card)	—	B-A-N-K	—	GIVE	ME
	
You	can	sign	
credit	card
	
two	different	ways.	The	old	way	is	shown
in	
Table	9-8
	
.	The	new	way:	Outline	a	card	shape	and	then	show	the
motion	of	swiping	it	through	a	machine.
Signin’	the	Sign
	
Robert	and	Krista	are	going	clothes	shopping.	They	like	to	save	money,	so	they’re	doing
some	comparison	shopping.
Robert:
I’m	buying	new	clothes.
Sign:
NEW	CLOTHES	—	BUY	MEKrista:
I	don’t	have	a	lot	of	money.
Sign:
A	LOT	MONEY	—	HAVE	ME	—	NOT
Robert:
Buy	a	couple	of	blouses	on	sale.
Sign:
TWO	BLOUSES	—	SALE	—	BUY
Krista:
If	I	buy	blouses,	I’ll	need	pants.Sign:
IF	BLOUSES	BUY	—	PANTS	NEED	ME
Robert:
Use	your	credit	card.
Sign:
CREDIT	(outline	card)	—	YOURS	USE
Shopping	Superlatives	and
Comparisons
In	English,	you	sometimes	form	words	that	compare	by	adding	endings,	such
as	“er”	or	“est.”	For	comparatives	and	superlatives	in	Sign,	you	use	the	root
(base)	word	and	then	add	a	modifier.	For	example,	you	sign	
greatest
	
simply
as	
great,
	
and	you	sign	
happier
	
as	
happy.
	
After	you	decide	which	base	word
you	want	to	use,	sign	it	and	then	add	one	of	the	words	from	
Table	9-10
	
—
whichever	one	is	the	most	appropriate.
TABLE	9-10
	
Super	WordsEnglish
Sign
English
Sign
GOOD
BETTER
BEST
TOP
BOTTOM
BAD
MINIMUM
MAXIMUM
WORSE/WORST
	
	
	
Comparing	costs	is	a	pretty	common	thing	to	do.	Here’s	how	to	sign
the	better	bargain.	If	you’re	at	the	store,	you	can	always	point	to	what
you’re	referring	to;	that	way	you	can	avoid	fingerspelling.	To	sign	that
you	found	the	cheapest	or	most	expensive	item,	simply	sign	
cheap
	
or
expensive
	
and	then	sign	the	word	
top.
	
This	is	a	good	way	to	compare
several	prices.	You	can	also	sign	
cheap
	
or	
expensive
	
and	then	sign
better.
English:
	
The	red	shirt	is	better	than	the	green	one.
Sign:
	
RED	SHIRT	—	GREEN	SHIRT	—	RED	BETTEREnglish:
	
His	coat	is	the	warmest.
Sign:
	
HIS	COAT	—	WARM	—	TOP
English:
	
Your	shoes	are	the	ugliest.
Sign:
	
YOUR	SHOES	—	UGLY	—	WORSTChapter	10
The	Signer	About	Town
IN	THIS	CHAPTER
Planning	and	conversing	during	a	night	on	the	town
	
Signing	about
your	social	status
Going	out	on	the	town,	you	see	Deaf	people	signing	at	every	turn.	Because
you’re	reading	this	book	and	discovering	ways	to	communicate	in	American
Sign	Language,	stopping	to	chat	with	them	is	no	longer	difficult.
The	signs	in	this	chapter	give	you	an	edge	on	conversing	with	other	signers
about	the	world	of	culture	and	entertainment.	After	you	familiarize	yourself
with	this	chapter,	you	can	discuss	movies,	plays,	the	theater,	and	even
exhibits	in	a	museum.	You	will	also	view	signs	to	communicate	your	social
status.
Making	Plans
Getting	together	with	friends	has	never	been	so	easy.	The	signs	in	
Table	10-1
help	get	you	on	your	way.
TABLE	10-1
	
Planning	Signs
English
Sign
English
Sign
APPOINTMENT/RESERVATION
CALENDAR
CANCEL
SCHEDULE
EVENT
WRITE
DOWN
SOCIALIZE
DELAY
	
Some	timely	tips	to	pencil	in:	
Appointment
	
and	
reservation
	
are	the
same	sign,	so	if	you	can	sign	one,	you’ve	got	the	other.	The	sign	for
schedule
	
looks	like	the	grid	on	a	calendar	page.	You	sign	
socialize
	
with
one	thumb	circling	the	other.	
Write	down
	
and	
record
	
share	the	same
sign.	And	the	sign	for	
canceling	an	appointment	or	date
	
is	exactly
what	you	might	expect	—	you	make	an	
X
	
on	your	passive	hand.
The	following	sentences	are	sure	to	help	you	make	or	break	plans:	
English:
Write	it	down	on	your	calendar.
Sign:
	
YOUR	CALENDAR	—	WRITE	DOWNEnglish:
	
What	is	your	schedule	for	tomorrow?
Sign:
	
TOMORROW	—	YOUR	SCHEDULE	—	WHAT	Q
English:
	
The	event	was	cancelled.
Sign:
	
FINISH	—	EVENT	—	CANCEL
	
You	sign	
finish
	
to	show	that	the	sentence	is	in	past	tense	(see	
Chapter
2
	
for	a	discussion	of	tenses).
When	you’re	giving	the	time	or	you	need	to	sign	what	time	something	occurs,
you	touch	your	wrist	where	you	normally	wear	your	watch	and	then	sign	the
number.	For	example,	if	you	want	to	tell	someone	that	it’s	2	o’clock,	touch
your	wrist	and	then	sign	the	number	
2.
	
To	distinguish	between	a.m.	and	p.m.,
you	sign	
morning,	afternoon,
	
or	
night
	
after	the	number.	This	rule	has	two
exceptions:	For	
midnight,
	
you	don’t	touch	your	wrist;	you	simply	sign	the
number	
12
	
straight	down.	And	for	
noon,
	
you	sign	
12	noon
	
straight	up.
	
Check	out	the	signs	for	numbers	in	
Chapter	4
	
.	You	can	then	make	a
date	for	a	specific	day	and	time	with	the	cute	Deaf	guy	or	girl	you	just
met.
Going	to	the	movies
You	can	sit	around	the	house	and	watch	a	good	TV	program	with	your	Deaf
friends	if	your	TV	has	closed-captioning	(CC),	which	displays	the	text	on	the
screen.	If	the	captioning	doesn’t	come	on,	just	give	it	a	minute.
Open-captioning	(OC)	is	different.	This	captioning	is	the	subtitles	you	usually
see	on	foreign	films,	either	at	home	on	a	DVD	or	out	in	the	theater.	In	case
you	were	wondering,	yes,	Deaf	people	do	attend	movies.	Many	Deaf	people
go	to	the	movies	to	see	the	latest	flicks	and	then	go	to	dinner	afterward.	Some
theaters	have	an	OC	night	for	newly	released	movies.	This	is	a	good	place	to
meet	Deaf	people.	Call	your	local	theater	to	see	whether	it	has	a	captioning
night	for	the	Deaf.
Some	theaters	don’t	have	OC	but	do	have	
rear	window
	
captioning.	This
involves	a	device	that	plugs	into	the	seat’s	cup	holder	and	extends	in	front	of
you,	near	eye	level,	displaying	the	movie’s	captions.	You	can	also	sometimes
find	
assistive	listening	devices
	
as	well.	
To	sign	
open-captioning,
	
simply	fingerspell	O-C.
	
Communicating	during	a	movie	is	common	among	signers.	They
converse	about	everything	—	the	movie’s	plot,	an	actor,	or	even	the	lack
of	salt	on	the	popcorn!	
Table	10-2
	
presents	some	signs	to	help	you	enjoy
the	show.
TABLE	10-2
	
Movie	and	TV	Terms
English
Sign
English
Sign
ACTING/DRAMA/STAR
CLOSED-
CAPTIONED
MATINEE
MOVIE
SOLD	OUT
TICKET
Are	you	feeling	a	bit	like	Bond,	James	Bond,	or	are	you	more	in	the	mood	for
bonding	in	a	romantic	way?	
Table	10-3
	
shows	you	signs	that	indicate	various
types	of	movies.
TABLE	10-3
	
Movie	Genres
English
Sign
English
Sign
ACTION
COMEDY/FUNNY
MYSTERY
ROMANCE
FANTASY
SCARY
English:
	
The	movie	sold	out.
Sign:
	
MOVIE	—	SOLD	OUT
English:
	
If	the	movie	is	open-captioned,	I’ll	go.
Sign:
	
IF	MOVIE	O-C	—	ME	GO
English:
	
The	matinee	was	a	comedy.
Sign:
	
AFTERNOON	MOVIE	—	FUNNYEnglish:
	
We	went	to	see	the	new	mystery.
Sign:
	
FINISH	—	NEW	MYSTERY	—	SEE	US
English:
	
There’s	captioning	Saturday	at	the	movie.
Sign:
	
SATURDAY	MOVIE	—	O-C
Going	to	the	theater
Attending	plays	is	always	a	great	way	to	improve	your	signing	skills,
especially	if	the	actors	also	sign.	Many	plays	provide	an	interpreter	so	that
Deaf	people	can	attend	and	enjoy	the	play	along	with	hearing	folks.
Table	10-4
	
shows	you	a	few	of	the	more	well-known	theatrical	terms	that	you
may	want	to	know.
TABLE	10-4
	
Theatrical	Terms
English
Sign
English
Sign
INTERMISSION
LIGHTS
THEATER
STAGE
	
You	sign	
light
	
with	a	double	
flick,
	
using	your	index	finger	and
thumb	under	your	chin	and	then	mimicking	the	action	of	screwing	in	or
taking	out	a	light	bulb.	You	can	also	sign	
light
	
and	mimic	shining	a
spotlight	or	a	flashlight.
The	sign	for	
stage
	
doesn’t	allow	your	passive	hand	to	move	—	only	the
active	one	outward.
English:
	
When	the	lights	go	out,	stop	talking.Sign:
	
LIGHTS	OUT	—	TALKING	STOP
English:
	
During	intermission,	I’m	leaving.
Sign:
	
DURING	INTERMISSION	—	LEAVE	ME
Going	to	the	museum
Visiting	a	museum	is	quite	an	experience	and	one	that	many	Deaf	people	can
appreciate	as	easily	as	those	in	the	hearing	world.	You	don’t	have	to	be	able
to	hear	to	enjoy	all	the	wonderful	things	that	are	included	in	museums.
However,	being	able	to	discuss	what	you	see	is	nice.
Use	the	signs	in	
Table	10-5
	
when	you	go	back	in	time	for	a	few	hours.
TABLE	10-5
	
Museums	and	Museum	DisplaysEnglish
Sign
English
Sign
ART
DISPLAY/EXHIBIT/SHOW
HISTORY
MUSEUM
PHOTOGRAPHY
SCULPTURE
TIME/ERA
BROCHURE
	
You	sign	
museum
	
like	“house,”	only	you	use	the	manual	
M
	
on	both
hands.	You	sign	time	periods	by	signing	the	manual	
T
	
in	a	circular
motion	with	your	active	hand	on	your	passive	hand.	This	means	
time
period
	
or	
era.
	
You	sign	
photography
	
by	mimicking	taking	a	picture.	Make	sure
that	you	give	it	a	double	click	because	a	single	click	means	“to	take	a
picture.”
English:
	
The	museum	is	open.
Sign:
	
MUSEUM	—	OPEN
English:
	
We	saw	the	photography	exhibit.
Sign:
	
FINISH	—	PHOTOGRAPHY	EXHIBIT	SEE
Selecting	Your	Social	StationSelecting	Your	Social	Station
Going	out	with	the	gang	is	a	good	time	for	those	who	like	the	night	life.	Deaf
people	enjoy	their	social	bonds	and	can	paint	the	town	red	with	the	best	of
them.	Often,	people	go	as	singles,	and	other	times,	it’s	couple’s	night	out.
The	signs	in	
Table	10-6
	
will	help	you	when	you’re	planning	that	night	out
with	your	friends.	At	night,	signs	just	seem	to	flow.
TABLE	10-6
	
Social	Station	Signs
English
Sign
English
Sign
MARRIED
SINGLE
DIVORCED
BACHELOR/BACHELORETTE
DATE
FIANCÉ	/FIANCÉE
WIDOW/
WIDOWER
HONEYMOON
Signin’	the	Sign
Denni	and	Wanda	want	to	go	to	the	movies,	so	they	decide	to	schedule	a	time	that	works	for	both	of
them.
Denni:
Want	to	go	to	a	movie?
Sign:
MOVIE	—	GO	WANT	Q
Wanda:
Yes,	I	can	go	next	Saturday	—	maybe	a	comedy.
Sign:
YES	—	NEXT	WEEK	—	SATURDAY	—	GO	FUNNY	MOVIE	—	MAYBEDenni:
I’ll	write	it	down	on	my	schedule.
Sign:
SCHEDULE	—	WRITE	DOWN	—	ME	WILL
Wanda:
I’ll	write	it	down,	too.
Sign:
WRITE	DOWN	—	TOO	—	ME	WILLChapter	11
Takin’	Care	of	Business
IN	THIS	CHAPTER
Talking	about	occupations
	
Using	signs	for	office	equipment
	
Knowing
some	general	work	signs
Many	more	Deaf	people	work	in	office	jobs	than	ever	before,	so	there’s	never
been	a	better	time	to	know	some	signs	for	around	the	office.	The	signs	in	this
chapter	can	help	you	show	Deaf	visitors	around	the	office	or	communicate
with	a	Deaf	colleague	at	your	workplace.
Occupying	Yourself	with	Occupations
The	average	American	worker	changes	occupations	many	times	in	the	course
of	a	career.	
Table	11-1
	
gives	you	signs	for	some	job	position	terms.
TABLE	11-1
	
Work	Words
English
Sign
English
Sign
ASSISTANT
BOSS
WORKER/
EMPLOYEE
DIRECTOR/
MANAGER
SECRETARY
SUPERVISOR
Here	are	some	sentences	that	will	surely	come	in	handy	at	the	office:
English:
	
When	is	payday?
Sign:
	
PAYDAY	—	WHEN	QEnglish:
	
She	was	terminated	by	Human	Resources.
Sign:
	
H-R	TERMINATE	HER
	
Most	people	refer	to	Human	Resources	as	“HR,”	so	you	sign	this
term	by	fingerspelling	H-R.
English:
	
The	boss	has	my	time	sheet.
Sign:
	
TIME	SHEET	MINE	—	BOSS	HAVE
Signin’	the	SignSignin’	the	Sign
	
Maria	is	a	new	office	employee.	Her	trainer	is	George.	She	wants	to	do	well	at	her	new	job
and	asks	George	questions	so	she	will	know	what	to	do	in	her	new	work	environment.
Maria:
Is	that	the	manager?
Sign:
MANAGER	—	HIM	(point)	Q
George:
No,	he	is	the	assistant	manager.
Sign:
NO	—	ASSISTANT	MANAGER	—	HIM
Maria:
Where	is	the	boss?
Sign:
BOSS	—	WHERE	Q
George:
In	a	meeting.
Sign:
MEETINGMaria:
Who	is	my	supervisor?
Sign:
MY	—	SUPERVISOR	—	WHO	Q
George:
Dee,	she	is	a	good	boss.
Sign:
D-E-E	—	GOOD	BOSS	—	TRUE	(affirmation)
Sorting	Office	Supplies
Moving	around	the	cubicle,	you	have	many	things	to	sign.	Try	the	signs	in
Table	11-2
	
and	you’ll	be	the	boss.
TABLE	11-2
	
Office	EquipmentEnglish
Sign
English
Sign
CLOCK
OFFICE
PAPER
COPY	MACHINE
PAPER	CLIP
DESK/TABLE
PENCIL
EQUIPMENT
PHONE
LAPTOP
STAPLER
	
	
	
You	may	find	the	sign	for	
clock
	
to	be	a	bit	tricky,	but	it’s	really
pretty	simple.	Touch	your	wrist	where	you	wear	your	watch	and	then
make	both	hands	into	manual	L	handshapes	that	are	bent	at	the	knuckle
toward	the	wall	or	wherever	the	clock	is	located.
The	office	is	a	great	place	to	work	these	signs.	The	following	sentences	can
give	you	a	hand	with	some	office	items.	And	because	office	equipment
doesn’t	always	work,	signs	exist	for	that,	too.
English:
	
The	copy	machine	is	broken.
Sign:
	
COPY	MACHINE	—	BROKE
	
Sign	
broke
	
or	
broken
	
like	you’re	breaking	a	stick	with	both	hands	in
the	manual	S	handshape.
English:
	
My	computer	is	frozen.
Sign:
	
MY	COMPUTER	—	FROZE
	
Sign	
froze
	
or	
frozen
	
like	the	word	
freeze
	
(see	
Chapter	5
	
).
English:
	
Where	is	the	stapler?
Sign:
	
STAPLER	—	WHERE	—	Q
English:
	
Do	we	have	enough	paper?
Sign:
	
PAPER	—	ENOUGH	—	HAVE	—	Q
Getting	to	WorkGetting	to	Work
The	workaday	world	is	full	of	tasks,	from	stocking	shelves	to	attending
meetings.	The	signs	in	
Table	11-3
	
make	work	a	little	more	fun;	you	can	carry
on	a	private	conversation	with	another	signer	during	a	boring	meeting.
TABLE	11-3
	
Business	Terms
English
Sign
English
Sign
BUSINESS
CLOSED	DOWN	(as	in
computer	screen)
DISCUSS
MEETING/CONFERENCE
PROMOTION
TRADING	(stocks)
WORK
	
	
Put	these	work-related	signs	into	action	in	the	following	sentences:	
English:
Are	you	going	to	the	conference?Sign:
	
CONFERENCE	—	GO	—YOU	—	Q
English:
	
The	managers	meeting	is	upstairs.
Sign:
	
MANAGERS	MEETING	—	UPSTAIRS
English:
	
If	you	trade	stocks,	I	will,	too.
Sign:
	
IF	TRADE	—	YOU	—	ME	—	SAME
English:
	
Where	do	you	work?
Sign:
	
WORK—YOU—WHERE	—	QEnglish:
	
The	business	is	closed.
Sign:
	
BUSINESS	CLOSED
Chapter	12
Recreation	and	the	Great	Outdoors
IN	THIS	CHAPTER
Discovering	the	signs	for	various	sports
	
Signing	words	related	to	games
and	hobbies
	
Knowing	the	signs	for	weather	and	the	outdoors
	
Playing
around	with	rhetorical	questions
You	can	relax	in	many	ways.	This	chapter	covers	a	few	of	the	more	active
pastimes.	We	provide	signs	for	sports,	recreations,	and	hobbies	in	this
chapter.	And	because	you	probably	don’t	want	to	have	a	picnic	in	the	rain,
this	chapter	also	deals	with	signs	for	the	weather.
Exercising	Your	Right	to	Recreate
All	work	and	no	play	makes	Jack	a	dull	boy	—	or	so	the	saying	goes.	The
point	is	that	everyone	loves	to	get	out	and	play	once	in	a	while,	whether	on	a
team	or	individually.	This	section	gives	signs	for	various	team	sports	first,
and	then,	for	those	of	you	who	are	more	independent,	signs	for	solo	sports.
Have	fun!
Getting	into	the	competitive	spirit
The	majority	of	sports	signs	look	like	what	they	represent.	For	example,	the
signs	for	
tennis
	
and	
baseball
	
mimic	the	swing	of	a	racket	and	bat,
respectively.	Don’t	you	just	love	it	when	signing	is	this	easy?	Check	out
Table	12-1
	
for	more	team	sports	signs.
TABLE	12-1
	
Competitive	Team	Sports
English
Sign
English
Sign
BASEBALL
BASKETBALL
BOXING
FOOTBALL
HOCKEY
SOCCER
WRESTLING
TENNIS
Signing	
ball
	
is	easy:	Mimic	putting	both	hands	on	a	ball;	do	it	with	a	double
motion.	You	can	make	the	ball	as	small	or	as	big	as	you	want.
You	sign	wrestling	and	football	the	same	way:	Lock	your	fingers	together	but
don’t	bend	them.	If	you	do	this	with	a	double	motion,	that’s	
football.
	
If	you
lock	your	fingers	once	and	go	side	to	side,	that’s	
wrestling.
Box
	
and	
boxing
	
are	the	same	sign.	Put	your	fists	up	like	you’re	in	a	boxing
stance.	No	two	people	hold	up	their	fists	the	same	way,	so	the	sign	varies
from	person	to	person.
Table	12-2
	
gives	you	signs	for	competitive	terms.	Some	of	these	signs	are	a
bit	tricky,	so	allow	us	to	give	you	some	explanation.
TABLE	12-2
	
Competitive	TermsEnglish
Sign
English
Sign
MATCH/GAME
CHAMPION/CHAMPIONSHIP
RACE/COMPETE/SPORTS
REFEREE/UMPIRE
SCORE
TEAM
TOURNAMENT
LOSE/LOST
WIN/WON
TIE/EVEN
	
You	sign	
match,	game,
	
and	
challenge
	
the	same	way,	except	the
nouns	
game
	
and	
match
	
get	a	double	motion	while	the	verb	
challenge
gets	a	single	motion.
If	you	want	to	sign	
versus,
	
use	the	same	sign	as	the	one	for	challenge.
	
You	sign	
compete,	sports,
	
and	
race
	
the	same	way.	Make	the	manual
A
	
handshape	with	both	hands,	put	your	palms	together,	and	then
alternate	them	back	and	forth.	If	you	want	to	show	fierce	competition,
grit	your	teeth	and	alternate	your	hands	rapidly.
Signing	
referee
	
or	
umpire
	
is	as	simple	as	putting	your	index	and	middle
fingertips	on	your	lips,	like	blowing	a	whistle	(and	don’t	forget	that	double
motion).	You’ll	probably	see	many	signs	for	these	two	words,	but	this	sign
seems	to	be	pretty	common.
	
Here’s	a	helping	tip:	You	sign	
score
	
just	like	
count.
	
You	may	see
some	Deaf	people	sign	one	team’s	score	on	one	hand	and	the	other
team’s	score	on	the	other	hand.
To	sign	
tournament,
	
start	with	both	hands	in	the	same	handshape	—	index
and	middle	fingers	bent,	palms	facing	the	addressee,	with	your	dominant
hand	higher	than	your	passive	hand.	Now,	alternate	your	hands	up	and	down
like	making	a	bracket	for	a	round-robin	tournament.
Lose
	
and	
lost
	
are	the	same	sign.	Make	the	manual	
V
	
handshape	with	your
dominant	hand	and	allow	it	to	hit	your	passive	palm	and	bounce	up	again.
Here’s	how	to	put	these	signs	into	sentences:	
English:
	
The	soccer	game	wasgood.
Sign:
	
SOCCER	GAME	—	GOOD
English:
	
He	can	box	and	wrestle.
Sign:
	
BOX	—	WRESTLE	—	BOTH	CAN	HIM
English:
	
If	you	play	soccer,	you	can’t	play	basketball.
Sign:
	
IF	SOCCER	PLAY	YOU	—	BASKETBALL	PLAY	YOU	—	CAN’TEnglish:
	
Our	team	won	the	race.
Sign:
	
OUR	TEAM	—	RACE	—	WON
English:
	
He’s	a	football	player.
Sign:
	
FOOTBALL	—	PLAY	HIMEnglish:
	
What’s	the	score?
Sign:
	
SCORE	WHAT	Q
English:
	
Did	we	win	or	lose?
Sign:
	
WIN	—	LOSE	—	US	WHICH	Q
Setting	out	soloSetting	out	solo
You	don’t	have	to	compete	with	a	bunch	of	other	people	to	be	active	and
enjoy	the	great	outdoors.	
Table	12-3
	
gives	you	the	signs	for	sports	that	you
can	enjoy	all	by	yourself	if	you	want.
TABLE	12-3
	
Individual	Sports
English
Sign
English
Sign
CYCLING
GOLF
HIKING
JOGGING
SWIMMING
RUNNING
WALKING
ARCHERY
	
When	you	sign	
jog,
	
make	fists,	put	them	beside	your	body,	and	move
them	as	though	you’re	jogging,	while	alternating	your	arms.
Here	are	a	couple	of	signs	that	aren’t	really	about	sports	but	are	handy	to
know	for	outdoor	activities:
PICNIC
CAMPING
	
The	following	sentences	show	sports	signs	in	action.
Glide	your	hands	down	the	sides	of	your	body	after	signing	a	sport	to	change
from	the	sport	to	the	player:	golf	to	golfer,	run	to	runner,	and	so	on.
English:
	
Mark	is	a	good	golfer.
Sign:
	
M-A-R-K	—	GOOD	GOLF	(AGENT)
English:
	
Do	you	like	cycling?
Sign:
	
CYCLING	—	YOU	LIKE	QEnglish:
	
Let’s	go	hiking.
Sign:
	
HIKING	—	US	GO
English:
	
We’re	going	on	a	picnic.	Are	you	coming?
Sign:
	
PICNIC	GO	US	—	COME	YOU	QPlaying	Indoor	Games
Not	all	games	require	a	lot	of	physical	activity.	Nor	do	all	of	them	have	signs.
For	example,	you	fingerspell	
cards,	chess,
	
and	
checkers.
	
You	also
fingerspell	all	board	and	card	games.	Mimic	throwing	dice	for	
gambling
	
and
dealing	cards	for	any	
card	game.
	
After	you	do	this,	fingerspell	specifically
what	game	you	mean.	Some	indoor	games	do	have	signs,	though,	and	you
can	find	many	of	them	in	
Table	12-4
	
—	no	cheating!
TABLE	12-4
	
Indoor	Games
English
Sign
English
Sign
BETTING
BOARD	GAME
DEAL	CARDS
GAMBLING
VIDEO	GAMES
Phone	Games
	
If	your	Deaf	friends	have	a	local	sign	for	a	game,	just	use	that	sign
instead.
English:
	
Who	wants	to	play	poker?
Sign:
	
P-O-K-E-R	—	PLAY	—	WANTS	—	WHO	Q
English:
	
Deal	the	cards.
Sign:
	
DEAL	CARDSEnglish:
	
He	likes	playing	chess.
Sign:
	
C-H-E-S-S	—	HE	LIKES
English:
	
Do	you	gamble?
Sign:
	
GAMBLE	—	YOU	Q
Having	Fun	with	Hobbies
From	collecting	to	surfing	the	web,	hobbies	keep	you	busy,	entertained,	and
sometimes	even	educated.	The	signs	in	
Table	12-5
	
show	you	how	to	tell
people	about	your	hobby	and	make	it	come	alive!
TABLE	12-5
	
Hobbies
English
Sign
English
SignCOLLECTING
BROWSING	THE
INTERNET
KNITTING
READING
SEWING
STAMP	COLLECTING
	
You	sign	
browsing	the	Internet
	
by	showing	the	sign	for	
Internetand	then	signing	
search.
	
To	sign	
stamp	collecting,
	
sign	
stamp
	
and	then
collect
	
—	like	gathering	a	bunch	of	stamps	into	the	palm	of	your	hand.
English:
	
I	collect	stamps.
Sign:
	
STAMPS	—	COLLECT	ME
English:
	
Knitting	is	relaxing.
Sign:
	
KNITTING	—	RELAXING
English:
	
I	like	sewing.
Sign:
	
SEWING	—	LIKE	MESeeing	the	Night	Sky
Enjoying	the	serene	beauty	of	the	night	sky	is	one	of	nature’s	most	wonderful
pleasures.	Only	one	thing	is	better	—	having	your	new	Deaf	friends	along	to
take	in	the	view.	Because	American	Sign	Language	is	a	visual	language	and
the	night	sky	is	a	visual	phenomenon,	it’s	fitting	to	see	how	these	two
awesome	pleasures	come	together.	The	signs	listed	in	
Table	12-6
	
are	fun	to
learn	and	fun	to	sign	because	there’s	movement	involved	—	a	shooting	star,
an	eclipse	of	the	moon,	and	a	twinkling,	star-filled	sky	are	only	a	few
examples.
TABLE	12-6
	
Celestial	Signs
English
Sign
English
Sign
STAR
SHOOTING	STAR
FULL	MOON
CRESCENT	MOON
SKY
STAR-FILLED	SKY
ECLIPSE
HEAVENS
SUN
	
	
English:
	
Did	you	see	the	shooting	star?Sign:
	
FINISH	—	SHOOTING	STAR	—	SEE—	Q
English:
	
The	eclipse	was	red.
Sign:
	
ECLIPSE	—	RED	—	TRUE	(affirmation)
Getting	the	Weather	Report
When	isn’t	the	weather	a	popular	topic	for	discussion?	Practice	the	basic
weather	signs	in	
Table	12-7
	
and	you’ll	be	as	right	as	rain.	And	because	one
should	always	be	prepared,	
Table	12-8
	
provides	signs	for	dealing	with	natural
disasters.TABLE	12-7
	
Weather	Wise
English
Sign
English
Sign
CLOUDY
DARK
THUNDER
LIGHTNING
STORM
SUNNY
WINDY
OUTSIDE
WEATHER
RAIN
TABLE	12-8
	
Natural	Disasters
English
Sign
English
Sign
EARTHQUAKE
TSUNAMI
FLOOD
FIRE
DROWN
MUDSLIDE
TORNADO/HURRICANE
(1)
TORNADO/HURRICANE
(2)
WARNING
ALERT
SAFE
ESCAPE
Check	out	these	weather	signs	and	give	them	a	whirl.	Try	replacing	them
with	other	weather	signs	—	it’ll	be	smooth	sailing.
English:
	
It	is	cloudy	today.
Sign:
	
TODAY	—	CLOUDYEnglish:
	
It’s	sunny	outside.
Sign:
	
OUTSIDE	SUNNY
English:
	
It’s	dark	and	windy	this	evening.
Sign:
	
NOW	NIGHT	—	DARK	WINDY
English:
	
There	is	thunder	and	lightning	outside.
Sign:
	
OUTSIDE	—	THUNDER	LIGHTNINGAsking	Rhetorical	Questions	in	ASL
What	you	know	about	rhetorical	questions	in	English	is	not	the	same	as
rhetorical	questions	in	ASL.	In	English,	a	rhetorical	question	is	a	question
that	does	not	require	an	answer.	In	ASL,	a	rhetorical	question	is	asked	and	the
person	who	asks	the	question	gives	the	answer	as	well.	A	rhetorical	question
is	a	way	of	making	a	point	by	providing	the	information	for	the	very	question
you	ask.
	
Keep	your	eyebrows	up	when	you	ask	the	question	—	that	action	tells
everyone	that	you	don’t	expect	an	answer.	And	if	you’re	on	the
receiving	end	of	a	rhetorical	question,	you’ll	recognize	it	because	the
signer	will	barely	pause	before	answering	his	own	question.	His	hands
won’t	go	down	to	give	you	a	chance	to	put	your	hands	up	to	respond.
	
When	you	ask	a	rhetorical	question,	you	use	
who,	what,	why,	where,
when,
	
and	
how
	
(which	are	covered	in	
Chapter	6
	
)	to	make	the	sentencerhetorical,	but	you	don’t	add	a	question	mark	because	you	aren’t	really
asking	a	question.	You	are	setting	up	the	question	to	answer	it	yourself.
English:
	
Brent	is	on	my	team.
Sign:
	
MY	TEAM--	WHO	—	B-R-E-N-T
English:
	
The	tournament	is	in	Pueblo.
Sign:
	
TOURNAMENT	WHERE	—	P-U-E-B-L-O
Signin’	the	Sign
	
Jason	and	Jesse	can’t	decide	what	they	want	to	do	tomorrow	—	it	just	depends	on	the
weather.
Jesse:
I	want	to	golf	tomorrow.
Sign:
TOMORROW	—	GOLF	—	PLAY	WANT	MEJason:
I’ll	go	swimming	tomorrow.
Sign:
TOMORROW	—	SWIM	ME
Jesse:
If	it	rains,	are	you	going	swimming?
Sign:
IF	RAIN	—	YOU	SWIMMING	Q
No,	I’ll	stay	home	and	read.Jason:
No,	I’ll	stay	home	and	read.
Sign:
NO	—	HOME	STAY	—	READ
Jesse:
If	it	rains,	let’s	play	cards.
Sign:
IF	RAIN	—	CARDS	US
Chapter	13
Here’s	to	Your	Health
IN	THIS	CHAPTER
Getting	medical	attention
	
Using	medical	words
	
Identifying	body	parts
in	Sign
	
Managing	emergencies	in	Sign
The	medical	field	has	many	signs,	and	practicing	them	is	fun.	However,
health	and	medicine	are	serious	issues.	Knowing	the	following	medical	signs
doesn’t	automatically	make	you	a	medical	interpreter,	but	that	knowledge	can
go	a	long	way	in	helping	someone	with	an	illness	or	emergency.	In	this
chapter,	we	cover	some	of	the	main	medical-related	signs.
Going	to	the	Doctor
Doctor	visits	ensure	good	health.	In	this	section,	we	give	you	the	signs	to
communicate	successfully	with	medical	personnel	and	tell	them	your
symptoms.	These	signs	are	more	helpful	than	an	apple	a	day	—	try	them	and
see.
Signaling	medical	personnel
The	doctor	is	in!	
Table	13-1
	
shows	the	signs	for	various	medical	people.
TABLE	13-1
	
Medical	Personnel
English
Sign
English
SignCHIROPRACTOR
DENTIST
DOCTOR
NURSE
SPECIALIST
SURGEON
The	following	sentences	are	sure	to	come	in	handy.
English:
	
Do	you	need	a	nurse?Sign:
	
NURSE	—	NEED	Q
English:
	
The	doctor	is	in.
Sign:
	
DOCTOR	HERE
English:
	
You	need	to	see	a	chiropractor.
Sign:
	
CHIROPRACTOR	—	NEED	YOU
Figuring	out	how	you	feel
Knowing	the	signs	for	symptoms	of	an	illness	helps	you	figure	out	the	best
way	to	handle	a	medical	problem.	As	with	talking,	signing	is	sometimes
difficult	when	you	don’t	feel	well,	but	it’s	a	necessary	part	of	receiving	help.
The	signs	in	
Table	13-2
	
can	take	the	sting	out	of	communicating	yourproblem.
TABLE	13-2
	
Feelings/Symptoms
English
Sign
English
Sign
COLD
CONSCIOUS
DIZZY
EARACHE
HEADACHE
NAUSEA
UNCONSCIOUS
TEMPERATURE
	
You	sign	
conscious
	
the	same	way	as	
know
	
and	
familiar
	
or	
aware.
You	sign	
knocked	out
	
as	K-O.	With	your	dominant	hand,	start	the	K
handshape	at	eye	level,	with	the	O	handshape	ending	at	the	side	of	your
mouth.	Complete	the	sign	with	your	eyes	closed	while	bending	your	head	to
the	side	or	in	front.
Feeling	healthy,	wealthy,	and	wise	is	great,	but	allow	us	to	talk	about	the
word	
feel.
	
Sign	
feel
	
by	running	your	middle	finger	up	your	stomach,	your
chest,	and	outward.	If	you	put	your	thumb	up	after	signing	feel,	it	means	
feel
good.
FEEL
Expressing	medical	terms
Medical	words	are	simple	in	Sign;	they	usually	look	like	what	they	mean.	For
example,	you	sign	
blood	pressure
	
by	making	a	C	handshape	with	your
dominant	hand	and	then	placing	it	on	your	arm	muscle.	You	then	mimic
working	a	pump	bulb.	You	sign	
sutures
	
and	
stitches
	
by	mimicking	that
you’re	putting	a	needle	in	and	out	of	the	stitched	area.	Check	out	
Table	13-3
to	see	for	yourself.TABLE	13-3
	
Medical	Procedures
English
Sign
English
Sign
BANDAGE
BLOOD	PRESSURE
DRAW	BLOOD
INJECTION
SURGERY
SUTURE/STITCH
TEST
LIE	DOWN
	
Some	signs	are	similar	in	appearance.	After	you	adjust	to	visually
reading	American	Sign	Language,	you’ll	be	comfortable	in	determining
a	sentence’s	context.
Try	the	following	sentences	for	practice.
English:
	
I	need	to	check	your	blood	pressure.
Sign:
	
YOUR	—	BLOOD	PRESSURE	—	CHECK	—	ME	—	MUST
	
In	ASL,	you	sign	
I
	
and	
me
	
the	same	way.	Just	point	to	yourself	with
your	index	finger.	If	you	want	a	quick	refresher,	check	out	
Chapter	6
	
.
English:
	
He	needs	an	injection.
Sign:
	
INJECTION	—	NEED	—	HIM
English:
	
How	do	I	get	blood	drawn?
Sign:
	
ME	—	BLOOD	DRAWN	—	HOW	Q
	
You	fingerspell	some	medical	terms,	especially	those	that	are
abbreviations	anyway.	For	example,	you	use	the	manual	alphabet	to	sign
CPR,	ER,	OR,	MRI,	ICU,	IV,
	
and	
X-ray,
	
as	well	as	the	names	of
medications.
Describing	Ailments	and	Treatments
The	ailments	in	
Table	13-4
	
are	signs	that	many	ASL	users	run	into	—	that
explains	the	bruises!	Try	these	signs	anyway.
TABLE	13-4
	
Ailments
English
Sign
English
SignBREATHING	PROBLEM
(ASTHMA)
BRUISE
COUGH
BROKEN
BONE
INFECTION
PAIN/HURT
SICK/DISEASE
SORE
THROAT
The	signs	in	
Table	13-5
	
are	the	perfect	relief.	Practice	them	and	you’ll	feel	a
whole	lot	better!
TABLE	13-5
	
Remedies
English
Sign
English
Sign
BED	REST/REST
CAST
CRUTCHES
PRESCRIPTION
WHEELCHAIR
MEDICINE
You	sign	
cast
	
by	making	the	manual	C	handshape	and	placing	it	on	your
passive	arm	in	a	double	sliding	motion.	If	the	cast	is	on	a	leg,	point	to	the
area.	If	it’s	a	body	cast,	fingerspell	B-O-D-Y	C-A-S-T,	or	else	you’ll	be
pointing	all	day.
You	sign	
prescription
	
with	the	manual	letters	R-X	and	then	a	square	with
both	index	fingers	starting	at	the	top	and	meeting	at	the	bottom	—	it	means
“slip.”
If	you’re	feeling	up	to	it,	try	the	following	sentences.
English:
	
She	has	an	infection.
Sign:
	
INFECTION	—	HAS	—	HER
English:
	
Sit	in	the	wheelchair.
Sign:
	
WHEELCHAIR	—	SIT
English:
	
You	have	a	sprain.
Sign:
	
SPRAIN	—	HAVE	—	YOU
Pointing	to	Body	Parts
If	you’re	using	ASL	to	describe	ailments,	it	helps	to	be	able	to	do	more	than
point	to	the	part	that	hurts,	although	in	many	cases,	that’s	exactly	how	you
sign	different	body	parts.	
Tables	13-6
	
,	
13-7
	
,	and	
13-8
	
illustrate	the	signs	for
body	parts	in	three	different	groups.	You	sign	most	of	the	signs	in	these	tables
with	a	double	motion;	for	example,	for	
ear,
	
tug	twice	on	your	earlobe.
TABLE	13-6
	
Parts	of	Your	Head
English
Sign
English
Sign
EAR
EYE
HEAD
JAW
MOUTH
NOSE
THROAT
TEETH
TABLE	13-7
	
Bendy	Places:	Joints
English
Sign
English
Sign
ANKLE
ELBOW
HIP
KNEE
KNUCKLE
NECK
WRIST
	
	
TABLE	13-8
	
Larger	Body	Parts
English
Sign
English
SignARM
BUTTOCKS
CHEST
FEET
HAND
LEG
STOMACH
TORSO/TRUNK
When	you’re	not	feeling	that	well,	these	sentences	can	help	you	get	all	the
sympathy	your	hands	can	hold.
English:
	
My	throat	is	red.
Sign:
	
MY	THROAT	—	RED
English:
	
My	neck	is	stiff.
Sign:
	
MY	NECK	—	STIFF	
You	sign	
stiff
	
by	using	the	same	sign	as	
freeze.
	
With	your	hands	in
front	of	you,	bend	all	your	fingers	slowly	as	if	they’re	becoming	frozen.
English:
	
Can	you	cough?
Sign:
	
COUGH	—	CAN	YOU	Q
English:
	
Her	mouth	is	bleeding.
Sign:
	
MOUTH	BLEEDING	—	HERHandling	Emergencies
Going	to	the	hospital	during	an	emergency	is	a	scary	thing.	However,	nothing
is	scary	about	these	emergency-related	signs	(except	having	to	use	them).
Table	13-9
	
may	be	your	9-1-1	when	you	need	to	help	out	in	an	emergency!
TABLE	13-9
	
Emergency	Room	Talk
English
Sign
English
Sign
ADMIT/ENTER
AMBULANCE
EMERGENCY
HEMORRHAGE/BLEED
HOSPITAL
DISCHARGE
	
Hemorrhage
	
is	the	same	sign	as	
bleed.
	
To	sign	bleed,	move	your
dominant	hand	up	and	down	rapidly.	The	faster	you	do	it,	the	heavier	the
bleeding.
Signin’	the	Sign
	
Lily	and	George	are	going	to	the	hospital;	he	is	ill	and	needs	medical	attention.	Read	on	and
see	how	the	story	unfolds:
Lily:
You	need	to	get	to	the	hospital.
Sign:
HOSPITAL	—	GO	—	MUST	YOU
George:
I’m	dizzy	and	my	stomach	hurts.Sign:
DIZZY	ME	—	STOMACH	HURTS
Lily:
We’ll	go	to	the	ER.
Sign:
E-R	—	GO	US	—	WILL
Part	3
Looking	at	Life	through	Deaf	EyesIN	THIS	PART	…
Develop	a	sense	of	belonging	and	see	the	way	of	the	Deaf,	how	they	unite,
who	has	united	against	them,	what	is	acceptable	to	the	Deaf	community,	and
what	is	not.
Walk	through	history	with	and	meet	the	Deaf	who	broke	the	barriers	of
oppression.
Learn	how	technology	is	allowing	the	Deaf	to	connect	to	the	world	in	new
ways.Chapter	14
The	Deaf	Community	and	Deaf
Etiquette
IN	THIS	CHAPTER
Viewing	Sign	through	history
Looking	at	the	Deaf	community	and	its	culture
Showing	sensitivity	to	Deaf	people
Getting	involved	in	the	Deaf	community
Interpreting	for	the	Deaf	community
	
You	probably	picked	up	this	book	because	you	want	to	find	out	how	to	sign
and	communicate	with	Deaf	friends,	family	members,	or	colleagues.	But
there’s	more	to	the	Deaf	community	than	just	American	Sign	Language
(ASL).	In	this	chapter,	you	find	out	the	history	of	Sign,	the	challenges	that
Deaf	people	have	faced	both	past	and	present,	and	what	it	means	to	live	in
two	cultures	and	speak	two	languages.	This	information	can	help	you	better
understand	just	what	it	means	to	be	Deaf,	which,	in	turn,	can	help	you	better
communicate	with	the	Deaf	people	you	know.
	
Many	people	who	can	hear	typically	think	Deaf	people	have	a	huge
void	in	their	lives	because	they	can’t	hear.	Nothing	could	be	further	from
the	truth.	Even	though	Deaf	people	experience	life	a	bit	differently,	they
have	a	wonderful	quality	of	life	and	enjoy	the	same	things	that	hearing
people	do.
Digging	into	Sign’s	Past
The	roots	of	ASL	run	fairly	deep.	Although	early	Greek	writings	refer	to
manual	communication,	no	one	knows	whether	those	writings	refer	to	just	a
few	gestures	or	an	actual	alternative	language	using	signs.	Hippocratesfew	gestures	or	an	actual	alternative	language	using	signs.	Hippocrates
studied	deafness,	and	Socrates	believed	that	it	was	a	natural	occurrence	for
Deaf	people	to	communicate	manually.
	
Juan	Pablo	Benet	(1579–1629)	wrote	the	first	book,	published	in
1620,	on	how	to	teach	Deaf	people.	He	incorporated	gestures,
fingerspelling,	writing,	and	speech.
You	can	find	sign	languages	in	every	country	throughout	the	world.	Some
countries,	such	as	Canada	and	the	United	States,	have	similar	sign	languages,
and	their	spoken	languages	are	also	similar.	However,	this	isn’t	always	the
case.	ASL	is	unique	among	the	world’s	sign	languages	because	it	has	had
many	influences	and	has	influenced	many	sign	languages	of	the	world.	This
section	explains	the	history	of	sign	language,	how	the	Deaf	view	themselves,
their	history	with	interpreters,	and	how	these	two	worlds	come	together.
Examining	When	and	How	ASL	began
Many	people	believe	that	ASL	was	strongly	influenced	by	the	work	of
Thomas	Hopkins	Gallaudet	and	Laurent	Clerc	in	the	early	1800s	at	the
American	Asylum	in	Hartford,	Connecticut	(see	the	nearby	sidebar,	“
The
origins	of	Deaf	education
	
”).
Another	influence	of	ASL’s	origin	goes	back	long	before	the	arrival	of
Gallaudet	and	Clerc.	In	the	17th	century,	Deaf	people	were	living	in	the
United	States.	They	lived	in	their	own	communities	on	Martha’s	Vineyard
and	made	their	livings	as	farmers	and	fishermen.	Most	of	these	inhabitants
were	descendants	of	people	who’d	moved	to	America	from	England.	Two
hundred	years	later,	their	descendants	were	still	living	there	and	attending	the
American	School	for	the	Deaf	under	Clerc	and	Gallaudet.	Many	believe	that
the	signs	brought	to	America	by	these	educators	and	the	signs	used	by	the
Martha’s	Vineyard	population	are	largely	responsible	for	today’s	ASL.
	
ASL	isn’t	related	to	English,	although	it	borrows	from	English	—	asmany	spoken	languages	do.	ASL	has	a	word	order	that’s	different	from
English,	and	it	has	its	own	idioms,	jokes,	and	poetry	—	all	unrelated	to
English.	People	who	support	ASL	believe	that	anything	can	be	taught	in
ASL	because	it’s	a	language	guided	by	properties.
Sign	is	visually	based.	An	object,	such	as	a	person,	animal,	or	thing,	needs	to
be	understood	by	two	parties	before	any	information	can	be	signed
concerning	the	subject.	Some	people	believe	that	this	is	the	natural	process
for	language.	Many	languages	are	based	on	this	idea	—	it’s	the	noun-verb
rule.	You	need	to	name	an	object	before	you	can	discuss	it.
THE	ORIGINS	OF	DEAF	EDUCATION
Thomas	Gallaudet	(1787–1851)	was	a	minister	and	an	educator	whose	neighbor,	Alice	Cogswell,	was	a
9-year-old	Deaf	child.	He	traveled	in	Europe	to	study	educational	methods	for	teaching	the	Deaf.
While	in	the	British	Isles,	Gallaudet	met	Laurent	Clerc	and	two	of	his	companions,	who	invited	him	to
France	to	study	the	educational	methods	of	teaching	the	Deaf	using	manual	communication.	He	sailed
back	to	the	United	States	with	Clerc,	and	they	raised	money	and	established	the	American	School	for
the	Deaf	in	Hartford,	Connecticut.	Alice	Cogswell	was	one	of	its	first	graduates.
Facing	the	Challenges	of	the	Deaf
Community
Through	the	years,	Deaf	people	have	had	to	face	numerous	challenges.	In	the
past,	they	had	little	access	to	education	and	almost	no	opportunity	for	gainful
employment.	Although	things	have	improved	over	time,	Deaf	people	still
face	challenges.	This	section	discusses	challenges	past	and	present	and	looks
at	how	the	Deaf	community	has	made	strides	to	overcome	them.
Putting	the	past	behind	us
Sign	language,	like	the	Deaf	people	who	use	it,	has	had	to	fight	for	survival.
Around	the	world,	sign	language	—	as	well	as	those	who	communicate	this
way	—	has	been	viewed	as	lesser	than	languages	of	the	hearing	world.	Many
hearing	people	have	dedicated	themselves	to	changing	the	Deaf	and	their
language.
For	centuries,	Deaf	people	had	to	undergo	the	treatment	of	being	viewed	asincomplete	because	of	their	absence	of	hearing.	Some	religious	groups
wanted	to	
save
	
Deaf	people,	while	other	groups	wanted	to	
teach
	
them.
Because	of	a	lack	of	speech,	Deaf	people	were	viewed	as	deaf	and	dumb.
This	label,	which	Aristotle	invented,	has	been	attached	to	Deaf	people	since
ancient	Greece.
Deaf	people	have	been	associated	with	being	demon-possessed	because	some
of	them	can’t	speak.	Because	numerous	biblical	verses	label	Deaf	people	as
dumb	and/or	mute,	the	Middle	Ages	—	a	dogmatic	religious	time	—	wasn’t
kind	to	them.	Deaf	individuals	were	hidden	by	family	members,	locked	in
asylums,	or	forced	to	try	speaking,	even	though	they	couldn’t	hear
themselves.
During	World	War	II,	Adolf	Hitler’s	henchmen	castrated	Deaf	men	after	they
were	locked	up	in	concentration	camps	as	part	of	various	medical
experiments.
Contemporary	religious	leaders	have	attempted	to	heal	Deaf	people	of	their
“sickness”	and	accused	them	of	lacking	faith	when	miraculous	hearing	didn’t
happen.
Some	people	mock	signing	in	front	of	Deaf	people	or	tell	them	how	sorry
they	are	that	they	can’t	hear	the	birds	singing	or	the	phone	ringing.	Others	are
so	rude	as	to	talk	about	Deaf	people	right	in	front	of	them	as	though	they
aren’t	even	there.
Many	Deaf	people	and	Deaf	advocates	have	risen	to	challenge	this
oppression,	and	they	seem	to	have	been	successful,	because	Deaf	people	are
still	signing	to	one	another	every	day.
You’ve	come	a	long	way,	baby
Although	Deaf	people	are	no	longer	viewed	as	being	possessed	by	the	devil,
they	still	continue	to	face	the	challenges	presented	to	them	by	a	hearing
world.	Deaf	people	have	fought	for	equal	opportunities	in	education	and
employment	and	for	cultural	recognition,	just	to	name	a	few	things.	Take	a
look	at	how	the	Deaf	community	has	overcome	modern	obstacles.
The	laws	of	the	land
The	Americans	with	Disabilities	Act	(ADA)	has	been	a	milestone,	not	only
for	Deaf	people	but	for	all	Americans.	Here’s	some	basic	information	about
the	ADA.	This	isn’t	intended	to	be	legal	advice	but	general	information.	Tothe	ADA.	This	isn’t	intended	to	be	legal	advice	but	general	information.	To
find	out	more	about	the	ADA,	go	on	the	Internet	and	search	for	“Americans
with	Disabilities.”
Title	I:	Employment:
	
If	15	employees	are	deaf	or	disabled,	the	workplace
must	be	modified	to	be	accessible.	For	example,	teletypes	(TTY;	see
Chapter	16
	
),	ramps,	and/or	railings	could	be	installed.
Title	II:	Public	Services:
	
Programs,	activities,	and	transportation	can’t
discriminate	against	disabled	people.	Buses,	taxis,	and	other	public	means
of	transportation	need	to	accommodate	the	disabled	population.	Programs
such	as	job	training,	educational	classes,	and	other	assistance	to	gainful
employment	must	also	be	provided.
Title	III:	Public	Accommodations:
	
All	new	construction	of
establishments	such	as	hotels,	grocery	stores,	retail	stores,	and	restaurants
are	mandated	to	add	physical	assistance,	such	as	ramps	and	railings.
Title	IV:	Telecommunications:
	
Telecommunication	agencies	that	provide
phone	services	must	provide	a	relay	service	for	TTY	users.
Title	V:	Miscellaneous:
	
Prohibits	any	threats	to	disabled	people	or	to
persons	assisting	the	disabled.
Getting	classified	as	an	“official”	language
Although	the	Deaf	population	in	the	United	States	has	had	much	progress
through	laws	promoting	civil	equality	and	educational	advancement	of	Deaf
people,	the	road	to	total	equality	is	still	a	long	one.	Not	all	states	in	America
recognize	ASL	as	an	actual	language.
The	dispute	over	whether	ASL	is	an	actual	language	has	been	ongoing.	Those
who	think	that	it	should	be	considered	a	language	often	cite	the	following
reasons:
It	syntactically	contains	properties	like	other	languages,	such	as	nouns,
verbs,	and	adjectives.
It	maintains	grammar	rules	that	must	be	followed.
Presently,	most	states	in	the	U.S.	support	this	argument	and	recognize	ASL	as
a	foreign	language.	In	addition,	numerous	colleges	and	universities	offer
credits	for	ASL	as	a	foreign	language.
On	the	other	hand,	many	people	don’t	buy	the	argument	that	ASL	is	a	real
language.	Their	argument	goes	like	this:language.	Their	argument	goes	like	this:
All	countries,	including	the	United	States,	use	their	own	indigenous	sign
language.	Therefore,	if	you	were	from	Spain	and	traveled	to	Peru,	your
Spanish	sign	language	wouldn’t	be	compatible	with	Peruvian	sign
language,	even	though	the	hearing	communities	from	both	countries	could
speak	Spanish	and	understand	each	other.
At	best,	some	countries,	such	as	the	United	States,	have	had	a	profound
impact	educationally	on	other	countries.	Many	foreign	Deaf	people	come	to
the	United	States	for	schooling,	and	they	take	home	many	ASL	signs.
Standardizing	a	sign	language	internationally	has	not	happened	with	any	one
national	sign	language.	However,	a	sign	language	system	called	International
Sign	Language	(ISL),	previously	called	
Gestuno,
	
is	used	at	international	Deaf
events	and	conferences.	It	uses	various	signs	from	several	national	sign
languages	and	was	first	used	in	the	1970s	at	the	World	Federation	of	the	Deaf
in	Finland.	To	get	more	information	about	ISL,	contact	Gallaudet	University.
Living	and	working	as	part	of	the	silent	minority
In	a	real	sense,	Deaf	people	living	in	the	United	States	are	a	silent	minority.
Living	in	a	world	where	one’s	language	is	known	by	few	and	understood	by
even	fewer	influences	how	Deaf	people	view	themselves.	(To	categorize	how
Deaf	people	view	themselves	is	too	big	a	label	to	put	on	people	who	are
individuals	with	various	educational,	economic,	social,	and	deafness	levels.
Some	people	are	more	adaptable	than	others	—	in	both	the	hearing	and	Deaf
worlds.)
Being	understood	by	few	also	influences	Deaf	people’s	feelings	about	how	to
exist	as	a	people.	This	experience	is	often	compared	to	living	in	a	foreign
country.	Think	about	it:	How	would	you	feel	if	you	were	living	in	a	foreign
land	where	the	language,	customs,	and	culture	weren’t	native	to	you?	You’d
probably	go	through	each	day	with	reluctance	and	uncertainty.	You’d	want	to
say	what’s	appropriate,	not	something	that	would	be	viewed	as	ignorant.
You’d	feel	frustrated	when	you	wanted	to	state	your	opinion	but	couldn’t
make	yourself	understood.	You’d	feel	isolated	when	everyone	was	laughing
at	a	joke	and	you	didn’t	understand	the	punch	line.	Deaf	people	often	feel	this
way	when	they’re	surrounded	by	hearing	people.
When	speakers	of	a	minority	group	come	together,	apart	from	the	majority,
they	feel	a	certain	sense	of	freedom	to	be	able	to	speak	—	or	sign	—	as	fast
as	they	want,	and	to	converse,	using	idioms	in	their	native	language.as	they	want,	and	to	converse,	using	idioms	in	their	native	language.
The	Deaf	as	an	Ethnic	Group
Although	Deaf	people	don’t	share	a	commonality	of	skin	color,	they	share	a
common	bond	of	culture.	If	culture	is	defined	as	shared	knowledge,
experience,	language,	beliefs,	and	customs,	Deaf	people	are	definitely	an
ethnic	group.
This	self-awareness	of	a	Deaf	ethnic	group	has	only	been	in	existence	since
the	20th	century.	Deaf	pride	has	come	from	this	identification.	These	people
view	themselves	as	whole	people,	not	people	with	broken	ears,	as	the	label
hearing	impaired
	
implies.	When	a	person	is	culturally	Deaf,	he	identifies	and
sometimes	introduces	himself	as	Deaf.	To	be	a	member	of	a	Deaf
community,	the	ability	to	communicate	in	ASL	is	a	basic	requirement.
Understanding	Deaf	culture
Just	like	any	other	culture,	the	Deaf	community	has	its	own	customs,	beliefs,
and	arts	that	are	passed	down	from	generation	to	generation.	The	culture	of
the	Deaf	community	isn’t	arbitrary;	it’s	a	system	of	understandings	and
behaviors.	This	cultural	group	shares	the	characteristics	of	other	cultural
groups:
The	members	share	the	commonalities	of	language	and	similar	obstacles	of
daily	life.
The	Deaf	culture	is	based	on	a	collective	mind-set,	not	on	an	individual
one.	Many	Deaf	people	feel	a	stronger	tie	to	other	Deaf	people	than	to
people	who	can	hear.
As	Deaf	people	feel	a	strong	bond	to	one	another,	they	have	a	strong	sense
of	cooperation.
Deaf	people	come	from	all	walks	of	life,	from	executives	to	construction
workers,	and	as	is	true	in	English,	those	who	are	more	educated	than	others
are	able	to	communicate	more	clearly	by	following	the	rules	of	their
respective	language.
As	with	all	cultures,	time	modifies	and	alters	some	aspects	of	the	culture.
This	happens	because	culture	is	both	learned	and	shared	among	a	given
group	of	people.
Culture	teaches	members	of	a	community	how	they,	as	a	people,	respond	toCulture	teaches	members	of	a	community	how	they,	as	a	people,	respond	to
other	ethnic	groups	and	the	world	around	them.
Knowing	who	falls	into	the	Deaf	cultural
community
You	may	be	thinking	that	the	question	of	who	fits	into	the	Deaf	community	is
a	silly	one	—	Deaf	people,	obviously!	But	the	Deaf	community	includes
these	people,	too:
Hearing	people:
	
Those	who	can	hear	play	important	roles	in	the
community	of	the	Deaf	as	educators,	ASL	teachers,	and	interpreters	for	the
Deaf.	Many	hearing	people	are	also	married	to	Deaf	people	or	have	Deaf
children,	making	them	part	of	the	Deaf	community.
Children	of	Deaf	Adults	(CODAs):
	
We	say	“children”	because	of	the
acronym,	but	obviously	the	term	simply	means	people	who	have	Deaf
parents.
Living	as	bilingual/bicultural	people
To	be	successful	members	of	society,	Deaf	people	have	to	be	able	to	live	and
communicate	in	both	the	Deaf	and	the	hearing	worlds.	They	have	to	be
comfortable	navigating	between	the	two	—	in	other	words,	they	have	to	be
bilingual	and	bicultural.	Proving	that	Deaf	people	can	live	as	a	bilingual,
bicultural	people,	more	Deaf	people	are	attending	college	and	working	in
white-collar	jobs,	and	more	interpreter	training	programs,	which	have	Deaf
instructors,	are	being	established.	Read	the	following	examples	to	see	this
dual	culture	in	action.
Many	Deaf	people	have	felt	the	burden	of	not	having	the	spiritual
satisfaction	that	people	desire	because	most	churches	don’t	have	anyone
who	knows	Sign	to	interpret	and	minister	to	a	Deaf	member	of	the
congregation.	Today,	however,	many	Deaf	people	are	going	into	the
ministry	and	leading	their	own	Deaf	congregations.	Many	hearing
ministries	are	also	learning	ASL.
The	Los	Angeles	Church	of	Christ’s	evangelist,	Ron	Hammer,	learned	Sign
from	Deaf	members	of	the	church.	He	trained	these	members	in	leadership,
and	the	interpreters	began	an	interpreter-training	program	inside	the	church.
Today,	the	Deaf	membership	of	that	church	has	increased	dramatically	toToday,	the	Deaf	membership	of	that	church	has	increased	dramatically	to
become	one	of	the	largest	Deaf	congregational	regions	in	Los	Angeles.
We	should	note	that	many	Deaf	people	prefer	to	attend	an	all-Deaf	church.
The	sermons	and	testimonials	in	these	churches	are	in	Sign,	and	interpreters
aren’t	needed.
Because	Deaf	people	and	hearing	people	share	common	interests	and	topics
of	conversation,	they	can	use	these	commonalities	to	communicate	and
become	closer.	When	a	Deaf	person	is	with	his	Deaf	friends,	he	may	talk
about	Deaf	schools,	but	he	can	just	as	easily	converse	with	a	colleague	at
work	about	schools	in	general.
Topics	such	as	the	weather,	sports,	food,	and	entertainment	are	all	popular
(and	are	all	discussed	in	various	chapters	of	this	book)	with	Deaf	people	as
well	as	the	hearing.	Even	topics	that	at	first	seem	unique	to	the	Deaf
community	are	really	similar	to	topics	that	are	discussed	by	hearing	people.
For	instance,	Deaf	people	often	discuss	the	nuances	of	ASL	and	“play	on
signs.”	Hearing	people	do	the	same	when	they	play	on	words,	making	jokes
and	puns.	Deaf	people	often	converse	about	schools	for	the	Deaf,
discussing	which	ones	they	attended	and	their	similar	experiences	with
dorm	life	and	residential	supervision.	Hearing	people	also	talk	about	where
they	went	to	school,	what	they	majored	in,	what	dorm	life	was	like,	and	so
on.
Politics	is	a	topic	of	Deaf	conversation,	the	same	as	with	hearing	people.
Deaf	people	also	try	to	make	sense	of	political	affairs	as	they,	too,	have
family	members	who	are	in	the	military	in	these	troubled	times.
Deaf	people	also	enjoy	the	company	of	significant	others.	Conversations
about	dates,	marriage,	disagreements,	and	making	up	are	topics	most
people,	Deaf	and	hearing,	have	in	common.	Problems	and	solutions	in
relationships	cross	all	cultural	and	linguistic	barriers.
	
Sign	language	is	not	the	same	around	the	world.	All	countries	have
their	own	sign	language.	Interestingly,	when	two	Deaf	people	meet	and
are	from	different	countries,	they	have	a	higher	chance	of	understanding
each	other	as	compared	to	two	hearing	foreigners	who	meet.	Deaf
people	are	used	to	being	misunderstood	or	not	understood	at	all	and	haveto	make	extra	efforts	to	get	their	point	across.
Being	Sensitive	to	Being	Deaf
Being	sensitive	to	Deaf	people	is	a	part	of	Deaf	etiquette	that’s	really	for	the
hearing.	Deaf	people	already	know	what	it	means	to	be	Deaf,	but	those	who
can	hear	probably	never	think	about	the	day-to-day	struggles	that	the	Deaf
have	to	overcome	in	this	world.
Getting	close	to	a	Deaf	person	requires	a	little	vulnerability	on	both	sides.
Many	Deaf	people	are	just	as	insecure	about	not	being	understood	as	you	are,
but	most	of	them	are	patient	and	incredibly	skilled	at	getting	their	point
across	to	you.	Like	all	people,	the	Deaf	come	from	all	walks	of	life.	Deaf	men
and	women	have	the	same	careers	that	hearing	people	do	—	they’re	doctors,
lawyers,	teachers,	homemakers,	construction	workers,	and	so	on.
Living	together	in	a	hearing	world
	
Here	are	some	tips	and	hints	to	keep	in	mind	when	interacting	with
Deaf	people:
As	your	signing	progresses,	a	Deaf	person	may	ask	if	your	parents	are	Deaf.
This	is	a	high	compliment	about	your	signing.	It	doesn’t	mean	that	you’re
fluent	in	ASL,	but	it	does	mean	that	your	signing	or	facial	expressions	have
characteristics	of	being	influenced	by	someone	who’s	a	native	signer.
When	visiting	Deaf	people,	don’t	assume	that	you	can	just	walk	into	the
house	because	they	can’t	hear	the	doorbell.	Deaf	people	have	strobe	lights
that	are	connected	to	the	doorbell	and	the	phone.
If	you’re	out	having	a	meal	with	a	Deaf	person,	don’t	feel	obligated	to	order
for	the	person	unless	you’re	asked,	even	if	it’s	just	to	practice	your	Sign.
Deaf	people	have	been	eating	in	restaurants	longer	than	you’ve	been
friends,	and	they’re	accustomed	to	pointing	to	an	item	on	the	menu	for	the
server.
As	you	learn	more	signs,	do	your	best	to	sign	when	you’re	talking	with
your	hearing	friends	and	a	Deaf	person	joins	the	conversation.	Signing	what
you’re	saying	may	be	difficult,	but	you’ll	be	able	to	do	it	in	time	withpractice,	and	doing	so	helps	the	Deaf	person	feel	included	if	he	or	she
knows	what	you’re	saying.
Getting	the	Deaf	perspective
After	reading	this	book,	no	doubt	you	see	that	knowing	Sign	is	just	one	piece
(albeit	a	large	one)	of	the	puzzle	to	understanding	the	Deaf	community.	To
really	get	a	grasp	on	Deaf	etiquette	and	culture,	you	have	to	get	involved	with
the	Deaf	community.	One	sure	way	to	get	involved	is	to	take	an	introductory
ASL	course	from	a	Deaf	instructor.	Although	you	can	find	some	awesome
Sign	instructors	who	can	hear,	a	Deaf	Sign	instructor	can	teach	from	the	Deaf
perspective	and	is	most	likely	a	native	signer.
An	introductory	class	gives	you	exposure	to	signs,	interaction	with	others
and,	hopefully,	an	opportunity	to	learn	from	Deaf	guest	speakers.	You	also
get	an	understanding	of	the	many	signing	styles	that	different	people	possess.
An	instructor	can	guide	you	as	to	where	Deaf	activities	are	taking	place,	who
Deaf	community	leaders	may	be,	and	issues	concerning	the	local	community.
Consider	this	class	to	be	a	segue	to	the	Deaf	community.
Participating	in	the	Deaf	Community
We	can	say	a	lot	about	the	subject	of	participation	in	the	Deaf	community.	A
good	rule	to	follow	is,	“When	in	Rome,	do	as	the	Romans	do.”	In	other
words,	when	you’re	with	Deaf	people,	respect	their	customs;	what	you	don’t
know,	you	can	figure	out	by	observation	and	through	asking	questions.
Basically,	just	watch	and	learn.	Some	of	the	things	you	may	notice	include
the	following:
A	sense	of	unity:
	
Depending	on	the	size	of	the	Deaf	community,	Deaf
people	congregate	at	activities	such	as	bowling	leagues,	Deaf	clubs,	Deaf
plays,	and	fundraisers.	In	Los	Angeles,	the	Deaf	community	is	very	large.
Subgroups	inside	the	community	consist	of	Russians,	Chinese,	Italians,
Hispanics,	Jews,	and	many	others.	Each	of	these	groups	has	its	own
respective	traditions,	customs,	and	celebrations.	As	a	whole	community,
they	come	together	for	events	such	as	the	Lotus	Festival,	Deaf	West
Theater,	and	Deaf	Awareness	Month.
ASL	pride:
	
Deaf	people	speak	of	ASL	quite	often	in	conversations.	Youmay	attend	plays	and	parties	where	ASL	is	the	main	topic.	The	Deaf
community	is	very	proud	and	protective	of	this	language,	so	it’s	often	a	hot
topic.
Signing	speed:
	
When	you	watch	Deaf	people	in	conversation	and	you	can’t
understand	anything	that’s	signed,	don’t	lose	heart.	Novice	signers	often
don’t	understand	Deaf	nuances	and	abbreviations,	and	they	often	have	a
hard	time	keeping	up.	Stay	with	ASL;	before	you	know	it,	you’ll	be	signing
like	a	pro.
	
And,	just	so	you	know,	few	things	are	more	volatile	in	the	Deaf
world	than	a	hearing	person	who,	having	taken	a	semester	or	two	of
ASL	classes,	proceeds	to	lecture	a	Deaf	person	because	he	or	she	doesn’t
sign	the	way	the	teacher	instructed.
Finding	your	place	in	the	Deaf	community
As	you	find	yourself	with	phone	numbers	of	Deaf	friends	and	invitations	to
Deaf	socials,	you’ll	be	well	on	your	way	to	being	a	constant	student	of	ASL.
Like	everyone	who	studies,	learning	new	ways	of	signing	ideas	will	be
commonplace.	The	possibility	of	going	to	school	to	professionally	hone	your
skill	and	take	classes	in	Sign	may	be	an	endeavor	you	soon	realize.
Many	people	have	no	deafness	in	their	families	and	learn	ASL	and	Deaf
culture	at	a	rudimentary	level.	Time	takes	care	of	the	rest	as	it	gives	way	to
proficiency	through	practice.
Some	people	have	Deaf	siblings	or	Deaf	parents	and	know	ASL	through	this
avenue	and	understand	Deaf	culture	because	of	them.	These	people	have	had
deafness	in	their	lives	from	the	beginning.
All	people	who	enter	the	Deaf	world	face	a	certain	dynamic.	Think	of	the
dynamic	as	a	bull’s	eye	(see	
Figure	14-1
	
).	At	the	center	is	the	core	Deaf
community	leaders;	these	are	the	movers	and	shakers	of	the	Deaf	world.	The
next	ring	is	the	Deaf	community	as	a	whole.	The	next	ring	are	Children	of
Deaf	Adults,	or	CODAs,	who	are	hearing	people	who	choose	to	become
interpreters.	Following	them	are	interpreters	who	have	no	Deafness	in	their
respective	families.	On	the	outer	ring	are	those	who	provide	services	to	theDeaf	community	members	but	still	have	the	ability	to	sign.	These	are	teachers
of	the	Deaf	and	can	hear	—	vocational	rehabilitation	counselors,	teachers	at
Deaf	schools,	and	professional	workers	who	provide	services	for	the	Deaf.
©	John	Wiley	&	Sons,	Inc.
FIGURE	14-1:
	
Think	of	the	layers	of	the	Deaf	community	like	a	bull’s	eye.
Communicating	with	new	Deaf	friends	for
the	first	time
Joining	the	Deaf	community	is	not	something	that	anyone	can	just	decide	to
do.	Attending	your	first	Deaf	function	with	the	Deaf	person	who	invited	you
is	appropriate.	Attending	a	Deaf	social	without	first	receiving	an	invitation	is
never	a	good	idea.	As	you	arrive,	your	host,	the	one	who	invited	you,	will
introduce	you	to	his	or	her	friends,	explain	how	you	know	each	other,	and
mention	that	you’re	learning	ASL.	Saying	both	your	first	and	last	name	is
customary,	and	a	good	rule	of	thumb	is	to	let	people	know	that	you	can	hear
and	that	you’re	learning	Sign.	They’ll	know	this	already	by	watching	your
lack	of	fluidity	in	the	language;	however,	through	this	admittance	and
vulnerability,	bonds	of	trust	are	made.As	you	walk	through	the	social,	you’ll	notice	Deaf	people	signing	in	fluent
ASL,	but	when	they	see	you	approaching,	they’ll	revert	to	signing	in	an
English	word	order	while	using	their	voices.	They	do	this	to	accommodate
you.	They	already	know	that	you	can’t	keep	up	with	their	pace	or	fluency,
and	they	change	their	modes	of	communication	to	make	sure	you	can
understand	the	conversation.	This	is	called	
code	switching.
	
After	you	depart
from	the	conversation,	you’ll	notice	that	the	Deaf	people	will	go	back	to
turning	off	their	voices	and	will	converse	in	proper	ASL.	Don’t	take	this
personally	as	an	offense.	The	gesture	of	using	more	English	by	the	Deaf	folks
for	your	benefit	—	code	switching	—	is	something	that	all	hearing	people
experience	when	they	attend	Deaf	socials	for	the	first	time.
SOMEONE’S	IN	THE	KITCHEN	WITH	DINAH
At	social	gatherings	in	someone’s	home,	it’s	not	uncommon	for	everyone	to	gather	around	the	kitchen
table.	They	do	this	because	kitchens	typically	have	good	lighting,	allowing	everyone	to	see	the	signs
clearly.
Questions	you	shouldn’t	ask
	
Never	initiate	a	conversation	about	a	Deaf	person’s	hearing	loss.
Questioning	someone	about	this	implies	that	you	don’t	view	that	person
as	whole,	but	broken,	incomplete,	or	inferior.	You’ll	find	that	the	Deaf
are	comfortable	talking	about	their	hearing	aids,	batteries	that	need
replaced,	and	ear	molds,	but	it’s	best	if	you	leave	this	subject	to	the
individual	who	is	Deaf.	If	you	view	a	Deaf	person	with	equality	and
respect,	the	hearing	loss	won’t	become	a	subject	of	any	great
importance.	Often,	as	you	become	better	friends,	your	questions	will	get
answered	in	a	passing	conversation.
Just	to	satisfy	your	immediate	curiosity,	most	Deaf	people	do	not	have	a	total
hearing	loss.	They	usually	have	what’s	called	
residual	hearing,
	
hearing	that
remains	after	deafness	occurs,	either	at	birth,	after	an	illness	or	accident,	or
because	of	age.	Deaf	people	have	varying	degrees	of	deafness;	some	are	more
profoundly	deaf	than	others,	so	some	Deaf	people	can	speak	clearly	while
others	can’t.	
In	your	time	with	the	Deaf,	make	it	a	growing	experience;	you’re
encountering	a	people	with	a	rich	history,	a	proud	people	with	a	bond	of
community.	You	aren’t	the	first	person	to	want	to	know	their	language,
and	you	won’t	be	the	last.
Interpreting	for	the	Deaf	Community
Interpreting	for	the	Deaf	community	is	very	much	a	part	of	the	Deaf
experience.
Deaf	people	had	started	using	family	members	as	interpreters.	Often	the
interpreter	was	usually	the	first	female	of	the	brood.	Often	when	the	Deaf
parents	needed	an	interpreter,	they	would	rely	on	their	children;	professional,
certified	interpreters	with	a	common	standard	was	not	established	at	this	time.
The	child	with	Deaf	parents	would	interpret	in	a	variety	of	situations.	Deaf
parents	would	depend	on	their	children	as	laws	requiring	companies	and
agencies	to	provide	ASL	interpreters	were	also	not	yet	established.
Deaf	parents	had	to	manage	their	business	affairs	through	children	who	did
their	best	but	often	did	not	have	an	adult	mentality	to	understand	adult	things,
planning	funerals,	medical	appointments,	car	sales,	apartment	leases,	and	the
like.	Again,	this	was	by	no	fault	of	the	Deaf	parents;	professional	interpreters
were	not	what	we	know	of	today.
In	was	in	1964	at	Ball	State	Teachers	College	that	the	Registry	of	Interpreters
for	the	Deaf	had	its	origins.	This	was	the	first	meeting	for	using	interpreters
for	Deaf	people.	However,	Texas	did	have	a	society	of	interpreters	that	was
established	before	the	RID;	the	Texas	Society	of	Interpreters	for	the	Deaf	was
established	in	1963.
Interpreters	under	the	RID	must	adhere	to	a	professional	code	of	conduct,
although	this	standard	has	changed	throughout	the	years,	confidentiality	is
still	at	the	top	of	the	list	of	tenets.	Confidentiality	is	a	matter	of	trust;	this
must	be	maintained	at	all	times.	Can	you	imagine	a	stranger	knowing	your
personal	information	and	telling	other	people?	Think	of	having	a	medical
appointment	and	the	information	gets	back	to	your	family;	this	must	not
happen.	Although	confidentiality	is	not	the	only	tenet,	it	is	the	base	to	ahappen.	Although	confidentiality	is	not	the	only	tenet,	it	is	the	base	to	a
professional	relationship.	If	you	cannot	be	trusted,	you	will	find	yourself
without	work.
Deaf	etiquette	is	shown	by	Deaf	having	the	right	to	ask	if	an	interpreter	is
certified.	Requesting	a	male	or	female	interpreter	is	also	appropriate.	For	a
Deaf	person	to	request	a	certain	interpreter	or	not	want	a	certain	interpreter	is
a	common	occurrence.	There	should	be	no	hard	feelings,	it	is	both	a	personal
and	a	professional	decision	by	Deaf	people.	In	turn,	interpreters	maintain
their	professional	demeanor	and	do	not	allow	personal	experience	to	interfere
with	their	work;	they	stay	neutral	and	interpret	to	the	spirit	of	the	message	for
all	assignments.
Interpreters	are	required	to	maintain	their	membership	with	the	RID.	They
must	attend	professional	development	workshops	and	conferences	to
maintain	their	certifications.
Respect	for	colleagues	and	consumers	is	equally	important.
	
You	can	learn	more	about	ASL	interpreters	and	the	RID	by	going	to
RID.org.Chapter	15
Soliciting	Social	Justice
IN	THIS	CHAPTER
Learning	from	the	past
Overcoming	oppression
Raising	the	bar
	
Some	people	say	that	America	is	a	melting	pot,	an	assortment	of	goodies
combined	in	one	vessel	all	blending	together.	Other	people	say	America	is	a
salad	bowl,	a	myriad	of	tasty	morsels	that	are	put	together	for	an	orchestra	of
good	eats.	If	America	is	truly	a	salad	bowl	of	various	veggies,	the	ingredients
may	exist	side	by	side,	but	some	components	may	overshadow	others.	In	life,
this	happens	as	well.	We	can	coexist,	but	we	may	not	be	living	to	our	full
potential.	The	Deaf	community	has	faced	this	very	situation	as	they	coexist
with	people	who	can	hear	(the	hearing	world).	When	the	two	groups	come
together,	both	American,	they	may	share	an	American	national	culture,	but
there	have	been	conflicts.	After	all,	ASL	is	another	language	that's
independent	from	English,	and	the	Deaf	rely	upon	it	for	survival.	But	the
majority	of	Americans	use	English,	and	the	needs	of	those	who	use	ASL	are
often	overlooked.
This	chapter	explains	with	some	detail	what	the	Deaf	community	has	faced	at
a	global	level,	a	historical	level,	and	a	scholastic	level.	The	rest	of	the	story	is
what	they	are	doing	about	it	as	Americans.	Social	justice	has	never	met	a
more	determined	people	who	love	life,	love	their	own	language,	and	love
living	the	American	dream.
Oralists	and	Manualists	Meet	in	Milan
In	the	early	1800s,	many	Deaf	schools	were	established	throughout	the
United	States	that	still	exist	to	this	day.	It	was	during	this	time	that	manual
communication	was	prospering.
In	1880,	a	Conference	for	educators	of	the	Deaf	took	place	in	Milan,	Italy.In	1880,	a	Conference	for	educators	of	the	Deaf	took	place	in	Milan,	Italy.
This	was	a	turning	point	for	American	Sign	Language.	At	this	meeting,	about
seven	countries	of	educators	for	the	Deaf	were	present,	including	the	United
States,	Italy,	Britain,	and	France,	to	name	a	few.	This	gathering	is	known	as
the	Milan	Conference	or	the	Second	International	Congress.	There	were	two
schools	of	thought	that	dominated	the	Conference:	Oralism	and	Manualism.
Both	of	these	philosophies	had	their	own	methods	of	teaching	Deaf	children,
and	each	had	their	own	supporters.
Oralists
	
believed	that	lip	reading,	mouth	movement/speech,	and
sound/auditory	training	were	all	needed	to	give	Deaf	people	a	complete
education	based	on	learning	to	speak	first.	This	would	impact	how	Deaf
people	communicate	long	after	their	primary	education	was	complete.	This
method	also	dismissed	Deaf	culture,	which	is	embedded	in	sign	language.
Oralists	felt	that	manual	communication,	sign	language,	was	a	hindrance	to
language	development.	Alexander	Graham	Bell	was	one	of	the	supporters
of	Oralist	education.
Manualists
	
believed	that	sign	language,	which	has	its	own	rules	of
grammar	and	structure	and	its	own	linguistic	evolution,	could	fulfill	all
language	requirements	to	teach	Deaf	children	as	it	is	a	natural	means	to
communicate.
A	resolution	at	the	Conference	was	passed	that	banned	sign	language	from
being	used	in	schools	to	teach	Deaf	people.	Many	Deaf	schools	suffered	from
this	decision	and	were	closed.	Deaf	teachers	were	released,	and	non-signers
were	hired	in	their	place.
France	and	Italy	supported	an	Oralist	method	of	teaching	while	Britain	and
the	United	States	supported	the	Manualist	method	of	teaching.	Even	though
the	Oralist	won	the	battle	of	the	day,	the	Manualist	grew	more	resolute	in
their	cause	and	solidarity.
American	Sign	Language	has	been	preserved	to	this	day	in	many	schools	for
the	Deaf	in	the	U.S.	and	around	the	world.
The	Deaf	Have	It
These	days,	many	people	are	learning	sign	language.	Although	many	people
enjoy	learning	the	beauty	of	the	physical	expression	of	ASL,	the	rich	history
of	the	language,	and	the	unity	of	the	Deaf	community	are	braided	togetherof	the	language,	and	the	unity	of	the	Deaf	community	are	braided	together
that	make	Deaf	culture.	We	must	remember	that	ASL	is	the	language	of	the
Deaf.	In	other	words,	it	is	theirs	as	orchestrators	and	guardians	of	ASL	that
we	know	today.
In	Deaf	history,	the	Deaf	have	fought	long	and	hard	against	people	who	wish
to	ban	sign	language,	view	it	as	a	marginal	language,	label	it	as	a	Tarzan
language,	or	not	give	it	language	status	at	all.	As	language	is	tied	to	its	native
users,	the	Deaf	are	tied	to	ASL.	This	means	that	Deaf	people	are	native	users
of	ASL,	and	those	who	are	not	native	users	are	linguistic	guests	in	the	world
of	this	language.	Therefore,	it	is	to	the	benefit	of	all	non-native	ASL	users	to
allow	the	Deaf	to	be	their	own	experts	of	their	language	regardless	of	how
long	and	deep	a	non-Deaf	person	has	studied	the	ASL.	Let	the	Deaf	lead	the
way	in	the	Deaf	world.	ASL	has	existed	in	the	Unites	States	for	almost	300
years,	so	it	is	a	safe	assumption	that	the	Deaf	community	knows	what	they
are	doing.
	
Those	who	are	not	native	ASL	users	must	be	polite	linguistic	guests.
Like	any	guest,	is	your	host	happy	that	you	are	coming	to	visit	or	happy
that	you	are	leaving?
Rejecting	Language	Oppression
Oppression	occurs	when	someone	dominates	another.	The	dominating	person
takes	away	the	oppressed	person’s	ability	to	make	choices	or	share	in	the
decision	making.	Although	oppression	is	often	seen	in	ethnic	groups,	it	is	also
seen	with	people	who	can	hear,	the	hearing,	and	people	who	cannot	hear,	the
Deaf.	Since	culturally	Deaf	people,	those	who	rely	on	ASL	to	communicate,
view	themselves	as	an	ethnic	group	with	their	own	history,	language,	and
culture,	oppression	against	them	can	be	viewed	as	an	ethnic	oppression.
Specifically,	since	the	hearing	people	have	dominated	ASL	by	taking	away
Deaf	people's	choices	about	ASL,	this	action	can	be	viewed	as	language
oppression.
Oppression	has	occurred	when	hearing	people	do	not	include	Deaf	people	in
deciding	how	they	should	be	educated	(as	in	the	Milan	Conference	mentioned
earlier	in	this	chapter.)	Oppression	also	takes	the	form	of	not	viewing	ASL	as
an	independent	and	equal	language	to	verbal	languages	and	not	understanding